Title: about-us

Summary: About Us (main) Full Text: There’s no cultural organization in the world quite like Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh. With a legacy of discovery and outreach dating back to 1895, today we are a family of four diverse, dynamic museums: Carnegie Museum of Art, Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Carnegie Science Center, and The Andy Warhol Museum. We’re committed to being inclusive, both on-site and online, and to exploring with our audiences the big ideas and issues of our time.

Our mission: To preserve and expand the resources of art and science as agents of personal growth and social advancement in Pittsburgh and beyond.

Our Core Values.

Our Vision for Impact.

Copies of Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh’s Federal IRS form 990 and audited financial statements are available upon request.

Title: Our History

Summary: Our History Full Text: >

The history of Carnegie Museums is bookended by two periods of fantastic growth and diversification. It all started in November of 1895 with the founding of Carnegie Institute, known today as Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh. Andrew Carnegie called the original Oakland building—which included Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh—his “monument,” and he considered it the chief satisfaction of his life. That’s saying a lot, considering that this son of a poor Scottish weaver grew up to become one of the world’s most successful entrepreneurs and philanthropists.

A year later, Carnegie Museums held the first Carnegie International, second only to the Venice Biennale as the world’s oldest and most prestigious international exhibition of contemporary art, and the museum’s collection of art quickly grew as a result. Two years later, in response to news that the bones of “colossal” prehistoric creatures were being found out west, Carnegie sent a scientific crew to Wyoming, where they would discover the first of many world-famous dinosaurs.

The first Carnegie International, 1896

To make room for the display of his namesake, Diplodocus carnegii, Andrew Carnegie broke ground on Carnegie Museums’ first major expansion in 1904. While the most famous product of that growth was the great Dinosaur Hall, its neighboring hall, the Hall of Architecture, perhaps best embodied Andrew Carnegie’s desire to “bring the world” to the people of Pittsburgh. He knew that most of those people would never leave their neighborhoods, their city, let alone the country. So he created a room filled with the casts of some of the greatest architectural wonders of the world. The hall itself is modeled after one of the seven wonders of the ancient world, the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, and its rare collection of casts is the largest on display anywhere in the world today.

The 1907 expansion

Early Dinosaur Hall

The Hall of Architecture

Adding two new museums
Carnegie Museums’ second most ambitious period of growth began in 1974, with the opening of the Sarah Scaife Galleries, which gave Carnegie Museum of Art’s constantly growing collections their own elegant space. Between 1980 and 1993, Carnegie Museum of Natural History added a number of new exhibit halls: Hillman Hall of Minerals & Gems, Polar World, the Benedum Hall of Geology, the Walton Hall of Ancient Egypt, and the Hall of African Wildlife.

In 1986, the expanding cultural powerhouse became known as “The Carnegie,” and to this day, many in the region still refer to Andrew Carnegie’s Pittsburgh museums as The Carnegie.

In 1991, Carnegie Science Center entered the Carnegie Museums fold through a partnership between Carnegie Museums and the Buhl Foundation. Home to Buhl Planetarium, the Miniature Railroad & Village, and hundreds of interactive science exhibits, the Science Center now attracts more than half a million people a year. By the time of its 10-year anniversary in 2001, the Science Center opened Highmark SportsWorks, the largest collection of sports and science exhibits in the world.

Carnegie Science Center

Three years later, Carnegie Museums again brought something new and irreplaceable to Pittsburgh, and the world: The Andy Warhol Museum. In addition to presenting the vast archives of Andy Warhol, the museum also has become a center for dialogue about a diverse range of topics, as well as a global ambassador to Pittsburgh’s cultural richness and diversity through its many traveling exhibitions.

The Andy Warhol Museum

Today’s ever-changing experiences
By the year 2000, the four Carnegie Museums became known as “Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh.” The following two decades included the debut of Carnegie Museum of Natural History’s blockbuster Dinosaurs in Their Time exhibit, which is nearly three times the size of the original dinosaur hall and the first exhibit in the world to feature scientifically accurate, immersive environments spanning the Age of Dinosaurs. In 2003 and again in 2012, Carnegie Museum of Art accomplished its most important and most visitor-focused transformations since the opening of the Scaife wing with the reopening of its Scaife Galleries after year-long renovations, which included new presentations of its vast collections and the display of more artwork. In 2014, The Andy Warhol Museum rehung its collection, telling the story of Andy Warhol’s life and artwork chronologically for the first time to spectacular effect. In 2017, Carnegie Museums launched a collaborative event series, Carnegie Nexus, that reaches across the arts and sciences to design experiences that animate pressing issues of our time and instigate new ways to examine our world through live performance, the visual and literary arts, and thoughtful conversation. And in 2018, Carnegie Science Center completed a major expansion: PPG Science Pavilion, which houses a suite of STEM Learning Labs; a Special Exhibitions Gallery for large-scale changing exhibitions; a laser digital giant-screen theater; and outdoor learning spaces on the riverfront.

Click above for visual snapshots from our 125 year story in the making.

©2025 Carnegie Museums Of Pittsburgh

Title: Our Museums

Summary: Our Museums Full Text: >

Carnegie Museum of Art was the first museum in the United States with a strong focus on contemporary art, instructed by its founder, Andrew Carnegie, to collect the “old masters of tomorrow” at the inception of the Carnegie International in 1896. Today, it’s one of the most dynamic major art institutions in the country.

As one of the country’s largest and most respected natural history museums, Carnegie Museum of Natural History plays a critical role in both the Pittsburgh region and the international scientific community by conducting research and presenting exhibitions and programs that highlight the interdependence of humanity and nature, and advocating for the protection of the earth and its inhabitants. The museum’s millions of objects and specimens form one of the world’s great archives of biodiversity and the history of life.

Carnegie Science Center, soon to be the Daniel G. and Carole L. Kamin Science Center, is dedicated to inspiring learning and curiosity by connecting science and technology with everyday life. By making science both relevant and fun, the Science Center’s goal is to increase science literacy in the region and motivate young people to seek careers in science and technology. As the region’s most-visited museum, the Science Center reaches 500,000 people annually through hands-on exhibits, camps, classes, and off-site programs.

The most comprehensive single-artist museum in the world, The Andy Warhol Museum illuminates the art, life, and times of one of the most influential American artists of the 20th century. Combining artworks, images, and objects from Warhol's colorful life, the museum takes visitors on a tour of Andy Warhol's personal and professional life—from Andy Warhol the Pittsburgh art student to Andy Warhol the Pop icon. With some 500,000 artworks and objects, the museum is the global keeper of Warhol's legacy.

©2025 Carnegie Museums Of Pittsburgh

Title: Our Impact

Summary: Our Impact Full Text: >

Families sharing quality time together. School children and their teachers discovering unique sources of inspiration, knowledge, and fun. Explorers of all ages experiencing one-of-a-kind exhibitions and events. The reach of the four Carnegie Museums is far and wide and open to all.

Carnegie Museums inspires, educates, and challenges. Our museums are places of thoughtful, playful discovery—where curious minds explore the most pressing issues of the day. They are guardians of and presenters of art, scientific collections, and ideas. And they bring to the region experiences only the four Carnegie Museums could deliver.

Carnegie Museums strives to expand its impact and provide better access to all by inviting partners from across the city to work with us to create new programs; through discounted admissions and free days; and by collaborating with people with varying degrees of physical and sensory abilities to create more meaningful experiences for every visitor.

©2025 Carnegie Museums Of Pittsburgh

Title: Our Leaders

Summary: Our Leaders Full Text: >

President & Chief Executive Officer

president@carnegiemuseums.org

Daniel G. and Carole L. Kamin Director, Carnegie Museum of Natural History, and Vice President of Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh
Carnegie Museum of Natural History

director@carnegiemnh.org

Senior Vice President & Chief Legal Officer

bernierm@CarnegieMuseums.Org

Henry Buhl, Jr., Director, Carnegie Science Center, and Vice President of Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh
Carnegie Science Center

director@carnegiesciencecenter.org

Vice President, Finance, Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer

cfo@carnegiemuseums.org

The Henry J. Heinz II Director, Carnegie Museum of Art, and Vice President of Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh
Carnegie Museum of Art

director@cmoa.org

Vice President, Technology

tech@carnegiemuseums.org

Vice President, Human Resources

hr@carnegiemuseums.org

Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer

coo@carnegiemuseums.org

Vice President, Development

VPDevelopment@carnegiemuseums.org

Vice President for Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Accessibility (IDEA)

winsteadg@carnegiemuseums.org

Vice President, Facilities, Planning, and Operations

fpo@carnegiemuseums.org

Carnegie Museums has a rich history of dedicated volunteer leaders who have been instrumental in our development and dynamic growth. They are community leaders from arts and culture, business, education, and government.

See the current list of Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh Trustees and members of the four Museum Advisory Boards.

©2025 Carnegie Museums Of Pittsburgh

Title: Opportunities

Summary: Opportunities Full Text: As the region’s largest cultural organization, Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh offers opportunities to make a difference in southwestern Pennsylvania and beyond. To impact and inspire your community while enriching yourself.

We’re always looking for talented people from diverse backgrounds and experiences to join our team. We offer competitive benefits to our staff of more than 1,000, place importance on fostering diversity and a spirit of inclusion, and emphasize creativity and innovation.

Need assistance or an accommodation? Carnegie Museums is committed to working with and providing reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities. If you need assistance or have a request for a reasonable accommodation during any part of the application or hiring process due to a disability, please contact our human resources team at HRConnect@carnegiemuseums.org or 412.622.3311.

Discover meaningful work. Learn something new every day. Celebrate innovation and inclusion. Grow in a prestigious and fun environment!
With so many opportunities, we invite you to search to find the best fit for you. Applying for a position is simple; job seekers create an account and apply to any job in just a few easy steps.

Why Carnegie Museums? We’ve been making an impact for more than 125 years.

We’re all about investing in you and your well-being. Check out our competitive employee benefits.

Diversity and inclusion has a place in our work every day. We are committed to creating an environment where all staff feel welcome, supported, and appreciated for their individuality.

Find answers to your Carnegie Museums hiring questions, including help with the online application process.

Interested in joining our dedicated volunteers? Searching for an internship experience? Here’s how to get involved.

©2025 Carnegie Museums Of Pittsburgh

Title: Contact Us

Summary: Contact Us Full Text: Claude Oscar Monet , Water Lilies (Nymphéas), c. 1915 - 1926, Carnegie Museum of Art; Acquired through the generosity of Mrs. Alan M. Scaife

>

Museum Addresses and Phone Numbers:
See our Plan a Visit page

Accessibility Needs:
Visit our Accessibility page

Media Inquiries:
Visit our Press Room

Job Opportunities:
Visit our Careers page

Website issues:
Email: web@carnegiemuseums.org

990 Financial Report: 
Email: cfo@carnegiemuseums.org

Membership (including change of address):
Call: 412.622.3314
Email: membership@carnegiemuseums.org

Ways to Give:
Email: donorrelations@carnegiemuseums.org

Donation Requests:
Learn more about our membership donation process.

Carnegie magazine:
Email: carnegiemagazine@carnegiemuseums.org

©2025 Carnegie Museums Of Pittsburgh