
City Council


Important Council Meeting Information

All meetings are Livestreamed on thecity websiteand on the Pittsburgh City ChannelYouTube channel.
To register for public comment and receive three (3) minutes to speak at Council’s Regular and Standing Committees meetings, and Council’s Public Hearings, please use the onlineSpeaker Signup form, filling it out in its entirety; or you may register by calling the City Clerk's office at (412) 255-2138.
Registration for Regular and Standing Committees meetings will close at 9:00 AM the morning of each meeting. Written statements may also be submitted via theCity Clerk’s email, but are not usually read during meetings/hearings.
This process will be in effect until further notice.
Council Districts Map 2022(PDF, 3MB)

Welcome to City Council

City Council is the legislative branch of government. It carries out duties in accordance with the Home Rule Charter and the laws of the state, and is primarily responsible for making laws which govern the City of Pittsburgh. City Council proposes, debates, and votes on legislation governing and/or affecting the city. This body also approves appointments as provided by the Charter, regulates revenues and expenditures, incurs debt, and approves the final operating and capital budgets for the city. Council is responsible for the introduction of legislation generated by the administrative branch of city government. Council may also introduce legislation generated by individual Council Members or Council as a body.

Districts

View the City Council Districts and Councilmembers who represent them.

Clerk's Office

In this section, we hope to provide you with a general view of the City Clerk's role, and the background and history of this office.

Neighborhoods & Wards

View maps of council districts and wards.

Legislative Information

Review City policies, standing committees, community programming, and more.

Council Budget Office

City Council's Budget Office monitors city finances and conducts independent analyses of city operations. This office prepares reports on revenues, expenditures, and other financial trends relative to the financial operation and fiscal condition of the City of Pittsburgh.

City Council Contacts

Find contact information for the offices of City Council members.
