
Community Programming

Snow AngelsPairs older residents and residents with disabilities with nearby neighbors who volunteer to assist them with snow removal on their sidewalks and walkways.
City CutsA lawn cutting program for our older neighbors, our veteran neighbors, and our neighbors with disabilities who do not have the means to cut their own grass.
Love Your BlockA mini-grant program that brings neighbors together to improve our communities by combating blight, creating assets, and building resilience - block-by-block.

Love Your Block

Applications for Love Your Block are currently closed. Applicants will be notified of their status by July 31, 2024.

About Love Your Block

Love Your Block is a City of Pittsburgh program that brings neighbors together to improve our communities by combating blight, creating assets, and building resilience, block by block.
Nonprofit organizations across Pittsburgh are invited to propose projects for up to $2,500 in funds. Funding supports volunteer-fueled neighborhood improvement projects.
Projects may include but are not limited to: community garden maintenance, neighborhood clean-ups, or tree and flower planting. Successful projects will build strong partnerships, leverage donations, and most importantly, engage neighbors.
The City will distribute a total of eight awards of $2,500 each.
Applications for the 2024 program are due Friday, June 28, 2024.

Here's How it Works

- Community organizations and nonprofits apply for Love Your Block awards of $2,500.
- Applications close June 28. The Mayor’s Office of Neighborhood Services will nnotify successful applicants.
- Organizations implement and complete their projects.
- The City of Pittsburgh will reimburse after project implementation.
If you have any questions or concerns about love your block please do not hesitate to reach out to us atneighbor@pittsburghpa.gov.

Project Examples

Examples of successful projects include:


- Community garden maintenance
- Neighborhood clean-ups
- Tree and flower planting
- Projects involving a parcel of land owned by the City or the community group applying for the grant
We encourage you to steer away from the following potential projects, which have resulted in unsuccessful past applications:


- Painting or otherwise modifying existing public structures like bridges or railings.
- Anything involving a parcel of land whose ownership is disputed, uncertain, or owned by an entity who has not explicitly agreed to its use for the project.

Previous Projects

Wondering about examples of successful projects from previous Love Your Block years?
Read on to learn more about Feed the Hood, Knoxville’s Positivity Garden, and South Side Slopes Mission and Barry Streets Beautification.
Feed the Hoodwas the first project under the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh’s Farm-A-Lot program. The URA and community partners organized to regenerate vacant green space into a place of healing and positive interaction in Homewood North.
Using food and community engagement as the catalyst for this project, the Homewood Parklet was revitalized into an Orchard Park to help meet our mission to build positive relationships between people and food. Maintained green space also reduce violent crimes in high poverty areas.
The Knoxville Community Council applied tomaintain the Positivity Garden on Zara Streetthat was created by neighbors on Zara Street. In addition to making improvements to the garden, the Council wanted to expand its impact by doing neighborhood clean ups with a focus on picking up litter and removing overgrowth throughout the neighborhood.
Grantees have said that without this funding, they would have had to close this garden as they simply couldn't do it without the grant’s help.
In the South Side Slopes, the application proposed abeautification project at the intersection of Mission and Barry Streetsat the bottom of theMission Street public staircase. The main focus was to organize general cleanup, cut back and remove of weeds and overgrowth, focusing on the corner and public staircase along both sides of steps at that location.

Guidelines


Apply


Guidelines

Please keep these basic requirements in mind before applying:


- Love Your Block is a City of Pittsburgh program with a maximum award of $2,500.
- Funding is provided through reimbursement after project implementation.
- Funding must be awarded through a nonprofit. If your organization is not a nonprofit, you can ask one to be your sponsor. Nonprofits are welcome to sponsor multiple projects.
- Projects must benefit the public.
- Projects on private property must have the written permission of the owner.
- All projects are subject to City of Pittsburgh Zoning and Permit guidelines.
- Project-related events must follow COVID-19 guidelines that are in place at the time of the events.
In planning for strong and successful projects, consider the following priorities:
- Build strong partnershipsPartnering with other organizations, nonprofits, or groups to complete this project.Recruit volunteers from neighborhood groups or organizations.Ask local businesses to lend a hand or donate food or materials.


    * Partnering with other organizations, nonprofits, or groups to complete this project.
    * Recruit volunteers from neighborhood groups or organizations.
    * Ask local businesses to lend a hand or donate food or materials.
- Leverage donationsAsk residents or local businesses to donate plants, compost material, or food for your volunteer event day.


    * Ask residents or local businesses to donate plants, compost material, or food for your volunteer event day.
- Make sure it’s feasibleWe love creative ideas, but don’t bite off more than you can chew! If you have a huge idea, make Love Your Block a first step in the right direction and secure some other partners that can assist with your plans.


    * We love creative ideas, but don’t bite off more than you can chew! If you have a huge idea, make Love Your Block a first step in the right direction and secure some other partners that can assist with your plans.
- Engage neighborsWhile your volunteers can come from anywhere, we’ve found that the most impactful projects utilize volunteers within proximity to the project. People like to be a part of what’s happening next door and are more likely to maintain and sustain the project afterward if they helped plan and implement it.


    * While your volunteers can come from anywhere, we’ve found that the most impactful projects utilize volunteers within proximity to the project. People like to be a part of what’s happening next door and are more likely to maintain and sustain the project afterward if they helped plan and implement it.

Apply

Fill out the following application. Please be sure to submit your application by 5:00 PM on May 15th.
Apply Online

City Cuts

We are currently not taking applications from residents but the window will be opening soon! Please check back the end of March/Beginning of April
City Cuts is the City of Pittsburgh’s lawn cutting program for our older neighbors, our veteran neighbors, and our neighbors with disabilities who do not have the means to cut their own grass.
In 2025, this service will be provided twice a month weather permitting from summer through early mid-fall.
Applicants must reside in the City of Pittsburgh limits, own the property or be responsible for the grass cutting of the property, lack social or financial means to cut their own lawns, and meet one or more of the follow qualifications:


- Be 62 years or older
- Be a veteran
- Have a disability that prohibits you from cutting grass
- Low income 150% below Federal Poverty Guideline
Service is limited and applications will be accepted on a first come, first served basis.
Find the different ways to apply by checking out the right side to "Request City Cuts Service".
We are currently looking forPittsburgh landscapers and contractorsto participate in this program. We are offering competitive rates and will be paying based on sq footage per yard. If you or someone you know is interested, please apply below.
APPLY

FAQs

Q- I am a person 62 or older requesting assistance with cutting the grass in my yard, located in the City of Pittsburgh. I own my own home. Do I qualify for City Cuts?A- Yes! Please see ways to apply to the right.
Q- I am a person with a disability requesting assistance with cutting the grass in my yard, located in the City of Pittsburgh. I own my own home. Do I qualify for City Cuts?A- Yes! Please see ways to apply to the right.
Q- I am a renter requesting assistance with cutting the grass in my yard, located in the City of Pittsburgh. Do I qualify for City Cuts?A-Yes! You can apply for the program if you can confirm that you are the one responsible for the grass cutting and over the age of 62, disabled, veteran, and/or low income.
Q- I qualify! How do I sign up?A- Whichever of the ‘Request City Cuts Service’ options to the right work best for you!
Q- I’d like to request assistance for a friend or family member. May I request service on their behalf?A- Yes! Please be sure to note your contact information on the application.
Q- How will I be notified of acceptance into the program?A- You will be notified through the contact information provided.
Q- Will the contractor who cuts my lawn be insured?A- Yes. The City hired contractors through a procurement process this year, requiring insurance.
Q- How often will my grass be cut?A- Service will be provided twice a month weather permitting from mid May through October.
Q- Is any service provided besides grass cutting?A- Not through City Cuts. The scope of the service is limited to grass cutting.
Q- Can I schedule when I receive my service? Will I know in advance when my grass will be cut?A- No, but please expect a cut every two weeks. Since service is weather related, one rainy afternoon can shift the course of a week’s work..

Contact City Cuts

City Cuts Program, Mayor's Office414 Grant StreetPittsburgh, PA 15219
Questions or Concerns? Dial 3-1-1 or use the 311 Online Request Formhttps://www.pittsburghpa.gov/Resident-Services/311

Black Pittsburgh Matters

Black Pittsburgh Matters is the City’s platform to transform black communities and improve Black people’s quality of life. Black Pittsburgh Matters Principles are as follows:
- Black Lives Matter:Protecting the health and safety of Black People
- Black Communities Matter:Rebuilding traditional Black communities
- Black Wealth Matters:Increasing Black employment and entrepreneurship.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/oC2RQzELkpQ
Black Pittsburgh Matters Policies and Programs include the following.

State of Educational Emergency in the City of Pittsburgh

Legislation focused on eliminating student opportunity gaps.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/MdS1WCt7OZk

Catapult Program

Catapult ProgramStartup to Storefront assists start-up minority and women businesses succeed.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/JobxzURF1aQ

The Project Based Vouchers/Gap Financing Program

The Project Based Vouchers/Gap Financing ProgramExpands affordable housing and builds capacity for local non-profits and community development corporations.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/IUaeM59WwqM

Invest PGH

Invest PGHInvest PGH aids small business and affordable housing initiatives throughout Pittsburgh.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/0kFR-xXpSfM

The Pittsburgh Land Bank

The Pittsburgh Land BankThe Land Bank returns unproductive vacant and blighted Real Estate Property to beneficial reuse.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/YRkYP1y_nDM

Wage Review Committee

The Wage Review Committees recommendations improves the wages and working conditions of Pittsburgh Service Workers.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/GQhI6rUNXJk

Expanded Learn & Earn Summer Youth Employment Program

Expanded Learn & Earn Summer Youth Employment ProgramLearn & Earn provides meaningful work experiences and career exposure to low-income youth and young adults ages 14-24, residing in the City of Pittsburgh.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/XpgwoicWudo

Housing Opportunity Fund

Housing Opportunity FundA designated fund increasing affordable housing in the City.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/to0vDODJXFQ

Police Reform

A three-pronged approach: Better Training, Better Technology and Better Transparency for improvement.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/jW1y7KeFMiw

High Quality Affordable Housing

The City is creating additional high quality affordable housing.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/nL69ccypOIo

The Pittsburgh Park Plan and Tax

The Plan and Fund achieve excellence and equity in every park and in every neighborhood in Pittsburgh.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/v6I8IkZDBZk

Reimagining Police

Innovative Police reforms and initiatives have to create greater community and policy partnership programs.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/OZWRN-YzS3E

Racism as a Public Health Crisis

Legislation declaring racism a Public Health crisis in the City Pittsburgh and a commitment to provide concrete solutions.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/3d6gMivVKVk

The City of Pittsburgh Commission on Racial Equity

A Commission charged with making recommendations to increase racial equity.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/9oSr9W9alUk

Ten Principles of Racial Equity

The has committed to the Ten principles of racial Equity to increase equity, diversity and inclusion.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/I3hQpFYwIo4

Strategic Investment Principles

5 Investment Principles designed to increase funding to black people, black organizations and black businesses in Black Communities.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/QtzTSnf5WcM

The Pittsburgh Avenues of Hope

The Pittsburgh Avenues of HopeA Holistic Model for Rebuilding Pittsburgh's Black & Disinvested Main Streets.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/4H1Ll3oFcRw
