
Taxes


Earned Income Tax - Employer Withholding

Earned Income Tax - (Employer Withholding) is collected by Jordan Tax Service

What is Taxed?

Under Pennsylvania Earned Income Tax law, all residents of the City of Pittsburgh must have three (3%) percent of their wages withheld from their pay as Earned Income Tax. This amount is to be remitted to Jordan Tax Services. This applies whether the employer is located within or outside the City of Pittsburgh. The determining factor is the residency of the employee, not the location of the employer.
If insufficient amounts are withheld by employers, City residents are required to pay the difference when EIT tax returns are filed with Jordan Tax Services. Jordan Tax Services is the agent for EIT Tax collection for the Allegheny County Central Tax District.

Tax Rate

City of Pittsburgh residential; City 1%, School district 2%.3% Total

Contact

Jordan Tax Services can be contacted at 412-345-7966 orjts@jordantax.com.

Payroll Expense Tax


Due Date

The last day of the second month after quarter end for the prior quarters’ activity.

Tax Rate

5½ Mills (.0055) or .55%

Who Pays the Tax?

All persons who engage, hire, employ, or contract with one or more individuals, as employees, to perform work or render services within the City of Pittsburgh. The Payroll Tax is computed on the employer’s total payroll expense (total compensation) associated with business activity in the City. Partners are considered employees of the employer for purposes of the Payroll Tax. You do not need to be located in the City of Pittsburgh to be subject to this tax.

Do Self-Employed Persons and Partners Have to Pay the Tax?

Yes, self-employed persons and partners in a partnership, if the partnership otherwise does not remit the tax, must file the tax return and remit the tax on their own earnings. In calculating the earnings of self-employed persons or partners, such earnings are the sum of guaranteed payments and the lesser of net profits or net draws or distributions from the business. Passive income received by a self-employed person or a partner is not subject to tax because it is not considered “earned” income.

Important Dates

Employers must file quarterly reports with the City Treasurer on or before the last day of the second month after the quarter, reporting the preceding quarter’s activity on thePayroll Expense Tax Form. Thus, 1st Quarter taxes and reports are due May 31st, 2nd Quarter; taxes and reports are due August 31st, 3rd Quarter taxes and reports are due November 30th, and 4th Quarter taxes and reports are due February 28th of the following year.

Tax Rates, Penalties, and Fees

The Payroll Tax is fifty-five hundredths of a percent (.55% or .0055) of payroll expense generated as a result of an employer conducting business within the City of Pittsburgh, collected quarterly.
Payroll expense, which is the total compensation paid, including salaries, wages, net distributions, commissions, bonuses, stock options and other compensation to all individuals who during any tax year, perform work or render services in whole or in part in the City of Pittsburgh.
For more information, see:


- Payroll Expense Tax Regulations
- Payroll Expense Tax FAQs
For employers whose employees perform work or render services partly within and partly outside of the City of Pittsburgh, the method of computing their payroll expense attributable to the City of Pittsburgh is to use the percentage of total number of working hours employed within the City of Pittsburgh compared to the total number of hours employed (within and outside) the City for each individual employee. Detailed examples are provided in the Regulations.
If an employer does not pay on time, interest and penalties will be added to the amount it owes.
In order for a mailed report and return to be considered timely, it must be postmarked by the United States Post Office by the due date. The City Treasurer will allow for a two-day grace period for those reports and returns privately postmarked.
In order for an electronically submitted report and return to be considered timely, it must be submitted by 11:59PM Eastern Time on the due date.

Discounts and Special Rules

No discounts are available for the Payroll Tax.
Yes. A charitable organization, shall calculate the tax that would otherwise be attributable to the City of Pittsburgh and file a return, but shall only pay the tax on that portion of its payroll expense attributable to business activity for which a tax may be imposed pursuant to unrelated business income tax (“UBIT”) under Section 511 of the Internal Revenue Code. Please review your IRS Form 990-T to determine which part of your activities are subject to the UBIT. If the charity has purchased or is operating branches, affiliates, subsidiaries or other business entities that do not independently meet the standards of the “Institutions of Purely Public Charity Act”, the tax shall be paid on the payroll attributable to such for-profit branches, affiliates or subsidiaries, whether or not the employees are leased or placed under the auspices of the charity’s umbrella or parent organization.

How to Pay

By mail:


- Make check payable to: “Treasurer, City of Pittsburgh.” Do not send cash.
- Mail to: Payroll Expense Tax, 414 Grant St., Pittsburgh, PA 15219-2476
- A $30.00 fee will be assessed for any check returned from the bank for any reason.
In Person:


- Visit the first floor payment windows of the City Treasurer’s Office in the City-County Building at 414 Grant St, Pittsburgh PA.
- A check or cash are acceptable for in-person payments.

Tax Code

The relevant ordinance isSection 258 of the Pittsburgh Municipal Code.

Forms and Instructions

ThePayroll Tax Form, as well as instructions that apply to this and other tax types.

Related Content

Every employer not registered with the City of Pittsburgh shall, within 15 days after first becoming an employer, register with the City the employer’s name, address and such other information as the City may require.
ThePayroll Tax Regulationscan be found online.
Pittsburgh Code Reference: Ch. 258
For new business registration call 412-255-2525.

Local Services Tax


Due Date

30 days after quarter end for the prior quarters' activity.

Tax Rate

$52/year, paid in even parts over 4 quarters.

Who Collects the Tax?

Employers are required to withhold the tax from the earnings of their employees and pay over the tax to the City Treasurer. For purposes of this tax, sole proprietors and partners shall be deemed to be employees. The Local Services Tax of $52 is to be deducted evenly from pay checks throughout the year.
If the employer does not withhold the proper amount of tax, then the employee, partner, or self-employed person must pay the Local Services Tax directly to the City Treasurer.

Important Dates

Employers must file quarterly reports with the City Treasurer on or before the 30th day after the quarter, reporting the preceding quarter’s activity on theformsprovided.

Tax Rates, Penalties, and Fees

The Local Services Tax is $52/year, collected quarterly.
For more information, see:


- Local Services Tax Regulations
- Local Services Tax FAQs
If you don’t pay on time, interest and penalties will be added to the amount you owe. The failure of any employer to withhold the tax shall not relieve the employee from the duty to file a return and pay the proper amount of tax. Employees who believe their employer has not appropriately withheld the Local Services Tax should contact the City of Pittsburgh Finance Department at 412-255-2525.
In order for a mailed report and return to be considered timely, it must be postmarked by the United States Post Office by the due date. The City Treasurer will allow for a two-day grace period for those reports and returns privately postmarked.
In order for an electronically submitted report and return to be considered timely, it must be submitted by 11:59PM Eastern Time on the due date.

Discounts and Exemptions

No discounts are available for the Local Services Tax. However, an employee whose total income for a calendar year was less than $12,000, can apply for a refund of $52 (or the amount withheld) the following year using the Local Services Refund form at the “Local Services Tax Refund Form” link.
Yes. Employers must discontinue withholding the Local Services Tax when (i) the total earned income from all sources within the City of Pittsburgh is less than $12,000; (ii) the employee is on active duty in the military; or (iii) the employee is an honorably discharged veteran of the armed forces with a 100% service-connected-disability. In order to receive an exemption from the Local Services Tax, the employee must file an exemption certificate with their employer which can be found at the “Local Services Tax Exemption Certificate” link.
The employer is supposed to withhold the Local Services Tax for the municipality associated with the principal work location of the employee. For example, if the employee has $10 in Local Services Tax withheld for Municipality “A” and changes her job location to the City in the same calendar year, then the employee must provide the employer an exemption certificate. Having received the timely filed exemption certificate, the employer only has to withhold $42 ($52 less $10 paid to Municipality “A”) in City Local Services Tax from the employee.
The employee is supposed to provide the employer an exemption certificate showing how much Local Services Tax has been withheld during the current year. No more than $52 in Local Services Tax can be withheld by all employers from a particular employee.

How to Pay

By mail:


- Make check payable to: “Treasurer, City of Pittsburgh.” Do not send cash.
- Mail to: City Treasurer LS-1 Tax, 414 Grant St., Pittsburgh, PA 15219-2476
- A $30.00 fee will be assessed for any check returned from the bank for any reason.
In Person:


- Visit the first floor payment windows of the City Treasurer’s Office in the City-County Building at 414 Grant St, Pittsburgh PA.
- A check or cash are acceptable for in-person payments.

Tax Code

The relevant ordinance isSection 252 of the Pittsburgh Municipal Code.

Forms and Instructions

TheLocal Services Tax Form, as well as instructions that apply to this and other tax types.

Related Content

Every employer not registered with the City of Pittsburgh shall, within 15 days after first becoming an employer, register with the City the employer’s name, address and such other information as the City may require.
The Local Services Tax Regulations
For additional information call 412-255-2525

Real Estate Tax


Who is Taxed

All owners of real estate located within the City and School District. The market value of the property is determined by the Allegheny County Office of Property Assessment. The taxes are calculated by applying the millage rate to the assessed value.

Discounts

Taxpayers may take a 2% discount on either of the following if taxes are paid by February 10th:


- The total annual tax due or,
- The first installment of tax due.

Tax Payment Due Dates



- Last day of February for 1st installment or the annual amount at gross
- April 30th for 2nd installment
- July 31st for 3rd installment
If no payment is made by the last day of February or if less than the entire first installment amount is paid by the last day of February, the entire year’s taxes become due and payable in full and incur interest charges from March 1st.
Tax bills are mailed in January. Further installment bills are mailed in April and July.

Related Content

If you have any questions please call 412-255-2525.
Pittsburgh Code Reference Chapter: 263
First Levied: 1816

Park Tax

In November of 2019, voters in the City of Pittsburgh approved a referendum that amended theCity of Pittsburgh Home Rule Charter(PDF, 245KB)to establish a trust fund to collect funds for the improvement of the City's parks. Article 9 of the City's Home Rule Charter establishing the Parks Trust Fund is as follows:

Article 9

Parks Trust Fund
901. Establishment of the City of Pittsburgh Parks Trust FundThe City of Pittsburgh hereby establishes a Parks Trust Fund dedicated to the following values: improvement, maintenance, creation and operation of public parks; improving park safety; providing equitable funding for parks, including those in underserved neighborhoods throughout the City of Pittsburgh; and securing matching funds and services from a charitable city parks conservancy.
902. FundingThe Parks Trust Fund shall be funded, in part, by adding 0.50 mills to the real estate tax rate that must be approved and set by the Council of the City of Pittsburgh each fiscal year. The Parks Trust Fund may also receive monies and contributions from additional sources, including existing trust funds dedicated to park uses, other funds as determined by the Council of the City of Pittsburgh, private charitable donations, and matching funds from charitable city parks conservancies as further provided in Section 903, in addition to other public and private sources.
903. Agreement With Charitable City Parks ConservanciesThe Mayor may be authorized by City Council to enter into an agreement with one or more charitable city parks conservancies ("Services Agreement(s)") to receive services and to secure matching funds for the Parks Trust Fund. Council may appropriate funds from the Parks Trust Fund for use in the Services Agreement(s). The Services Agreement(s) shall address public participation and disclosure of spending from the Parks Trust Fund in addition to specific terms and conditions for the governance and use of appropriated funds.
904. Audit of Parks Trust FundThe City Controller shall conduct a financial audit each year of the Parks Trust Fund in accordance with Article IV of the Home Rule Charter of the City of Pittsburgh.

Parking Tax


Due Date

15th of each month, for the prior month’s activity.

Tax Rate

37.5%

Who Pays the Tax?

This tax is collected by the operator of the parking lot from patrons. The tax due is 37.5% or 0.27273 of the gross parking fee charged.
If you operate a parking place or receive consideration for the parking or storage of vehicles at such parking place, then you are responsible for collecting the tax from patrons, filing the tax returns, and remitting the tax to the City of Pittsburgh.

Important Dates

You must file monthly reports with the City Treasurer on or before the 15th day of the following month, reporting the preceding month’s activity on theParking Tax form. Tax returns must be filed even if no tax is due.

Tax Rates, Penalties, and Fees

Parking Tax is imposed at the rate of 37.5% or 0.27273 of the gross parking fee charged. No deductions are allowed for any costs or expenses that you incur in providing the parking places.
For more information, see:


- Parking Tax Regulations
- Parking Tax FAQs
If you don’t pay on time, interest and penalties will be added to the amount you owe. Additionally, if you as the operator, fail to collect the tax from patrons, then you shall be liable for paying the tax.
In order for a mailed report and return to be considered timely, it must be postmarked by the United States Post Office by the due date. The City Treasurer will allow for a two-day grace period for those reports and returns privately postmarked.
In order for an electronically submitted report and return to be considered timely, it must be submitted by 11:59PM Eastern Time on the due date.

Discounts and Exemptions

No discounts are available for the Parking Tax.
If you operate an Exempt Valet Parking Service, as defined in theParking Tax Regulations, then you are not liable for the Parking Tax but may be subject other business taxes.

How to Pay

By mail:


- Make check payable to: “Treasurer, City of Pittsburgh.” Do not send cash.
- Mail to: Parking Tax, 414 Grant St., Pittsburgh, PA,15219-2476
- A $30.00 fee will be assessed for any check returned from the bank for any reason.
In Person:


- Visit the first floor payment windows of the City Treasurer’s Office in the City-County Building at 414 Grant St, Pittsburgh PA.
- A check or cash are acceptable for in-person payments.

Tax Code

The relevant ordinance isSection 253 of the Pittsburgh Municipal Code.

Forms and Instructions

TheParking Tax Form, as well as instructions that apply to this and other tax types.

Related Content

Every Operator must secure a license from the Superintendent of the Bureau of Building Inspection. Any provider of Valet Parking Services is required to hold a Valet parking license from the Director of Mobility and Infrastructure. Each license must be renewed annually.
The Parking Tax Regulations
For additional information call 412-255-2525.
Tax First Levied: 1962

Earned Income Tax - Individual

Earned Income Tax - (Individual) is collected by Jordan Tax Service
The earned income tax (EIT) is commonly referred to as the wage tax. Although wages are the most common source of income taxed, wages are not the only source taxed. This tax is collected by Jordan Tax Services.
They can be contacted at 412-345-7966 orjts@jordantax.com.

Who is Taxed?

The tax is applied to people who earn income and/or profits and are CIty and School District residents. Residents pay 1% city tax and 2% school tax for a total of 3%. Non-Pennsylvania residents who work within the City pay 1%. Mt. Oliver Borough residents pay the School Earned Income Tax of 2% to the city which acts as the tax collector for the School District. Mt. Oliver residents must also file directly with the Mt. Oliver Borough tax office to report the borough Earned Income Tax.

What is Taxed?

Wages, salaries, tips compensation that is earned, bonuses, stock options, covenant not to compete, other incentives, net profit from businesses or professions. The definition of compensation that applies for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania is identical for the City.

Common Exclusions

Interest, dividends, active duty pay from the armed forces, pensions, social security, and capital gains.

Common Deductions

All expenses that are allowed on the State of Pennsylvania UE form.

Common Credits

Up to 1% of income taxes paid to a municipality in another state or to another state and not claimed on the EIT. This credit applies to the city tax only.

Forms Used

Self-employed individuals make quarterly payments using forms from Jordan Tax Services. These forms can be found on theJordan Tax website.
Due dates are:


- 1st quarter due April 30
- 2nd quarter due July 31
- 3rd quarter due Oct 31
- 4th quarter due Jan 31
If a person is employed for wages and has the EIT withheld by his/her employer, but also has self-employment income, estimates must be filed for the self-employment income.
Information on filing EIT Forms412-345-7966

Institution & Service Privileges Tax


Due Date

15th of April, for prior activity.

Tax Rate

6mil/dollar

Who Pays the Tax?

Any person, organization, foundation, corporation or unincorporated association operating under a non-profit charter or recognized as a non-profit entity by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, including, but not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, colleges, universities, schools other than elementary and secondary schools, cemeteries, veterans organizations, recreational centers, fund-raising organizations and all other organizations which conduct medical, educational, beneficial, social, recreational, vocational, or any other type of service for which a charge is made, as a non-profit entity, in the City of Pittsburgh. Common examples of taxpayers are charities, social clubs, fraternal benefit organizations, business leagues, and civic leagues.

What Gross Receipts Are Subject to Tax?

Generally, all revenue from services performed within the City limits are subject to tax. Individual charges for services rendered to a member or nonmember are subject to tax. Membership fees and charitable contributions are not subject to tax.
All gross receipts of an Institution of Purely Public Charity, which has a non-profit sales tax exemption issued by the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue, are not subject to tax.

Important Dates

You must file theInstitution and Service Privilege Tax Returnand payment with the City Treasurer on or before the 15th day of April, reporting the preceding year’s activity on the form provided.
New businesses must file the return with the City Treasurer within forty (40) days of starting the service with the institution’s name, the services rendered, the institution address, and such other information as may be necessary in arriving at the actual volume of services transacted by it during the first month of service and amount of tax due.
Every person or institution who engages in a temporary/seasonal service shall, within seven (7) days from the day it completes such service, file a return with the City Treasurer with the institution’s name, service, the person or institution address, and such other information as may be necessary in arriving at the actual gross volume of service, during the tax period and the amount of tax due.

Tax Rates, Penalties, and Fees

The tax rate is six (6) mills on each dollar of annual gross receipts. (Six mills equals $6.00 per $1,000 or 6/10 of 1%). Exempt receipts are not taxed. A reduced tax rate of two mills (2/10 of 1%) applies to proprietors of locations where food and beverages are sold.
For more information, see:


- Institutional & Service Privilege Tax Regulations
- Institutional & Service Privilege Tax FAQs
If you don’t pay on time, interest and penalties will be added to the amount you owe.
In order for a mailed report and return to be considered timely, it must be postmarked by the United States Post Office by the due date. The City Treasurer will allow for a two-day grace period for those reports and returns privately postmarked.
In order for an electronically submitted report and return to be considered timely, it must be submitted by 11:59PM Eastern Time on the due date.

Discounts and Exemptions

No discounts are available for the Institution and Service Privilege Tax.
If you are an “Exempt Institution” under the Institution and Service Privilege Tax Regulations, you are exempt from paying the tax. Examples of Exempt Institutions include: an Institution of Purely Public Charity, any government entity, or any utility company. To prove to the City that you are an Institution of Purely Public Charity, you must have a sales tax exemption as a non-profit issued by the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue and show your exemption number on the tax return. Affiliates of Institutions of Purely Public Charity which do not have their own sales tax exemption are not exempt.

How to Pay

By mail:


- Make check payable to: “Treasurer, City of Pittsburgh.”Write your city account number on your checkDo not send cash


    * Write your city account number on your check
    * Do not send cash
- Mail to: City Treasurer ISP Tax, 414 Grant St. STE 224, Pittsburgh, PA 15219-2476
- A $30.00 fee will be assessed for any check returned from the bank for any reason.
In Person:


- Visit the first floor payment windows of the City Treasurer’s Office in the City-County Building at 414 Grant St, Pittsburgh PA.
- A check or cash are acceptable for in-person payments.

Tax Code

The relevant ordinance isSection 247 of the Pittsburgh Municipal Code.

Forms and Instructions

TheInstitution and Service Privilege Tax Form, as well as instructions that apply to this and other tax types.

Related Content

The Institution and Service Privilege Tax Regulations
Additional information call 412-255-2525

Realty Transfer

Realty Transfer Tax is Collected by Allegheny County

Who is Taxed?

Every person (natural, association, and corporation) that makes, executes, delivers, accepts, or presents for recording a document which represents the transfer of property.

What is Taxed?

The transfer tax is a tax upon the transaction involving the transfer of title to real estate. The transfer tax is imposed on all transactions that result in a transfer, for consideration, of a beneficial interest in real estate that is located within the city of Pittsburgh and/or School District of Pittsburgh limits.

Tax Rates

2% City of Pittsburgh; 1% School District of Pittsburgh; 1% Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

Common Exclusions

Transfer to certain relatives, transfer between gov’t and instrumentalities, transfer to trustees for benefit of children, correctional deeds without consideration.

Common Deductions

None

Common Credits

Real Estate agents or brokers can claim a deed transfer tax credit when the property was taken in trade for another property, but not in excess of the tax due.

Notes

In Oct. 2005, the City and School District adopted the provisions of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax (72 PS/8101-C et seq.) In addition the Commonwealth is authorized to act on behalf of the City and School District to enforce the collection of this tax. This tax is collected by realty transfer stamps that are issued by the Allegheny County Real Estate department, Recorder of Deeds (412-350-4226). The tax collected is then remitted to the City Treasurer. Pittsburgh Code Chapters 255 & 256

Amusement Tax


Who Pays the Tax?

This tax is collected by the provider of the amusement from patrons. The tax due is 5% of the admission fee charged for attending any amusement in the City of Pittsburgh. An amusement can include any form of entertainment such as concerts, movies, night clubs, conventions, or sporting events.
If you operate or provide any place of amusement where people must pay an established price to attend or engage in the amusement, then you are responsible for collecting the tax from patrons, filing the tax returns, and remitting the tax to the City of Pittsburgh.

Important Dates

You must file monthly reports with the City Treasurer on or before the 15th day of the following month, reporting the preceding month’s activity on theAmusement Tax form.
If the place of amusement is temporary, you must file reports after each performance.

Tax Rates, Penalties, and Fees

Amusement Tax is imposed at the rate of 5% of the gross admission charge for the amusement venue or event. No deductions are allowed for any costs or expenses that you incur in providing the amusement.
For an amusement (entertainment) at a place where food and drink are served where there is no fixed charge for admission, the Amusement Tax will be based on 10% of the total amount paid for food and drink. For example, if a check for food and drink by a party of four amounts to $80.00, the admission charge is 10% of the total check, or $8.00. $8.00 admission charge X 5% = $ .40 Amusement Tax.
Where admission is obtained to any amusement solely or partly by a donation, contribution and other monetary charge, the established price for amusement for purposes of the tax shall be twenty-five (25%) percent of the total donation, contribution and other monetary charge.
When amusement is conducted at a social club or fraternal organization which also furnishes entertainment for which a separate charge is not made, the established price shall be fifty (50%) percent of the gross receipts
For more information, see:


- Amusement Tax Regulations
- Amusement Tax FAQs
If you don’t pay on time, interest and penalties will be added to the amount you owe.
In order for a mailed report and return to be considered timely, it must be postmarked by the United States Post Office by the due date. The City Treasurer will allow for a two-day grace period for those reports and returns privately postmarked.
In order for an electronically submitted report and return to be considered timely, it must be submitted by 11:59PM Eastern Time on the due date.

Discounts and Exemptions

No discounts are available for the Amusement Tax.
Private affairs sponsored by nonprofit organizations for members and their guests at which the admission charges or contribution approximate the expenses and the net proceeds benefit the nonprofit organization are considered “Exempt Amusements”. However, if members of the general public are invited to the private affair, the event is not an Exempt Amusement.
Additionally, children under twelve (12) years of age, disabled veterans and members of the armed services when on active duty and in uniform, who are admitted free of charge to any place of amusement, shall not be required to pay the Amusement Tax.
Additional exemptions are listed in theAmusement Tax Regulations.

How to Pay

By mail:


- Make check payable to: “Treasurer, City of Pittsburgh.” Do not send cash.
- Mail to: Treasurer, City of Pittsburgh – 414 Grant St. Pittsburgh, PA 15219-2476
- A $30.00 fee will be assessed for any check returned from the bank for any reason.
In Person:


- Visit the first floor payment windows of the City Treasurer’s Office in the City-County Building at 414 Grant St, Pittsburgh PA.
- A check or cash are acceptable for in-person payments.

Tax Code

The relevant ordinance isSection 241 of the Pittsburgh Municipal Code.

Forms and Instructions

TheAmusement Tax Form, as well as instructions that apply to this and other tax types.

Related Content

Every producer of an amusement must secure an Amusement Tax Permit from the Office of Permits, Licenses and Inspections at 412-255-2558 (prior to the event).
The Amusement Tax Regulations
For additional information call 412-255-2525
Tax First Levied: 1947

Non Resident Sports Facility Usage Fee


Who Has to Pay the Fee?

Every employer who employs one or more non-resident employees who earn compensation as the result of services performed at a publicly funded facility within the city. In the event the employer fails, refuses, or neglects to withhold or remit the fee for any portion thereof, the employee shall be personally liable for payment of the fee and any applicable penalty.

What the Fee is Based on

Earned income. Fee rate is 3%.

Examples of What is Subject to This Fee

Players or employees of a sports team and entertainers who engages in an athletic event at a publicly funded facility in Pittsburgh. For exact, separate determinations of how this fee is calculated for athletes, team employees, and entertainers, see theFee regulations.

Common Exclusions

Residents of Pittsburgh

Common Deductions

None

Common Credits

None

Filing Deadline

Quarterly filings are due by the last day of the month following the close of the quarter.


- NSFUF - FAQs about the recent Court of Common Pleas Ruling(PDF, 175KB)
- NSFUF Update Following Appeal to PA Supreme Court(PDF, 96KB)

Related Content

Pittsburgh Code Reference: Chapter 271
For additional information or tax forms, call: 412-255-2742 (David Rebholz).

Real Estate Tax Certification Letter

Need a permit to do business in the City? Do you want to do business with the City of Pittsburgh? Then you probably need a tax certification letter showing that you are up-to-date on your taxes.

Contact Us

For Real Estate Tax Certification Letters, please contact us:
412-255-2525RealEstateTaxInfo@pittsburghpa.gov
Or visit:City of PittsburghReal Estate Division414 Grant StreetPittsburgh, PA 15219

Business Tax Compliance Letter

Business Tax Compliance Letters, please contact us:
412-255-2525taxcompliance@pittsburghpa.gov
Or visit:City of PittsburghDepartment of Finance Room 207414 Grant StreetPittsburgh, PA 15219

Property Tax Worksheet

Return to Taxes Finance Page
This sheet is designed to provide you with an estimate of your property tax bill.
The Allegheny County property reassessment will determine the values that will be used to calculate your tax bill (assessment valuescan be found online). New tax millage rates have been set for the City, County and School District and tax bills will be mailed to you shortly. The City of Pittsburgh will not receive additional revenue as a result of the Allegheny County reassessment.
The following measures are meant to help you lower your tax bills:


- The City's millage rate is 8.06
- The Act-50 Homestead Exemption is $15,000
- The Act-77 Senior Tax Relief is a 40% reduction on assessment

Property Tax Worksheet

Disclaimer- This website and the figures thereon DO NOT represent actual tax liability or formal tax bills for the City of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Public Schools, Carnegie Library, or Allegheny County. The purpose of this website is to generate a rough estimate of potential tax liability based on proposed values, millage rates, exemption and abatement rates and amounts, and discount percentages that are all subject to change. No user shall rely on the data generated, given, or extrapolated from this page for tax liability or any other purpose and any user who does so, does it at their own risk. The City of Pittsburgh assumes no liability for the data on or generated by this page and assumes no liability for any user's usage of, or reliance on it.
Your browser does not support inline frames.Please click below to see a full page version of the Property Tax Worksheet
If your browser is not compatible with the calculator on this page, click here.(HTML, 675KB)

Tax Forms

Work From Home - Local Services Tax and Payroll Expense Tax Information(PDF, 245KB)

Important Information for City of Pittsburgh Taxpayers

Any entity conducting business within the City of Pittsburgh must be registered with the City of Pittsburgh and have a City ID Number.Need a City ID number?
Tax Returns that are received by the Department of Finance and arenotregistered will be returned to the taxpayer along with a registration form. Tax payments for unregistered businesses will not be accepted. Any interest and/or penalty caused by the delay in incorrect informationwill the responsibility of the taxpayer.
Failure to complete the Tax Forms correctly may result in additional interest and penalty. The United States Post Office postmark will be the only proof of timely filing accepted. Internal company post meter stamps are not proof of timely filing. Interest and penalty will be applied to all payments received after their respective due date. Please refer to the chart below for Tax and Fee information. For any questions, call 412-255-2525 Option 2 for Business Tax.

Taxes/Fees Forms & Regulations


Amusement Tax



- 2025 AT-Tax Form(PDF, 380KB)
- 2024 AT-Tax Form(PDF, 322KB)
- 2023 AT-Tax Form(PDF, 269KB)
- 2022 AT-Tax Form(PDF, 209KB)
- 2021 AT-Tax Form(PDF, 302KB)
- 2020 AT-Tax Form(PDF, 343KB)
- 2019 AT-Tax Form(PDF, 829KB)


- Amusement Tax Regulations(PDF, 859KB)

Payroll Expense Tax



- 2025 ET-1 Tax Form(PDF, 387KB)
- 2024 ET-1 Tax Form(PDF, 443KB)
- 2023 ET-1 Tax Form(PDF, 245KB)
- 2022 ET-1 Tax Form(PDF, 188KB)
- 2021 ET-1 Tax Form(PDF, 263KB)
- 2020 ET-1 Tax Form(PDF, 328KB)
- 2019 ET-1 Tax Form(PDF, 328KB)
- 2018 ET-1 Tax Form(PDF, 347KB)
- 2017 ET-1 Tax Form(PDF, 343KB)
- 2016 ET-1 Tax Form(PDF, 325KB)
- 2015-ET-1 Tax Form(PDF, 33KB)– Provisional Quarter


- Payroll Expense Tax Regulations(PDF, 578KB)

Institution & Service Privilege Tax



- 2025 ISP-Tax Form(PDF, 1MB)
- 2024 ISP-Tax Form(PDF, 916KB)
- 2023 ISP-Tax Form(PDF, 278KB)
- 2022 ISP-Tax Form(PDF, 219KB)
- 2021 ISP-Tax Form(PDF, 319KB)
- 2020 ISP-Tax Form(PDF, 353KB)
- 2019 ISP-Tax Form(PDF, 501KB)


- Institution & Service Privilege Regulations(PDF, 556KB)

Local Services Tax (Employers & Self-employed Individuals)



- 2025 LS-1 Tax Form(PDF, 356KB)
- 2024 LS-1 Tax Form(PDF, 407KB)
- 2023 LS-1 Tax Form(PDF, 242KB)
- 2022 LS-1 Tax Form(PDF, 197KB)
- 2021 LS-1 Tax Form(PDF, 314KB)
- 2020 LS-1 Tax Form(PDF, 272KB)
- 2019 LS-1 Tax Form(PDF, 280KB)
- 2018 LS-1 Tax Form(PDF, 285KB)
- 2017 LS-1 Tax Form(PDF, 263KB)
- 2016 LS-1 Tax Form(PDF, 276KB)


- Local Services Tax- Employers & Self-Employed Regulations(PDF, 712KB)

Parking Tax



- 2025 PT-Tax Form(PDF, 493KB)
- 2024 PT-Tax Form(PDF, 365KB)
- 2023 PT-Tax Form(PDF, 281KB)
- 2022 PT-Tax Form(PDF, 263KB)
- 2021 PT-Tax Form(PDF, 363KB)
- 2020 PT-Tax Form(PDF, 377KB)
- 2019 PT- Tax Form(PDF, 432KB)


- Parking Tax Regulations(PDF, 664KB)

Non-Resident Sports Facility Usage Fee



- 2025 UF-Fee Form(PDF, 459KB)
- 2024 UF-Fee Form(PDF, 293KB)
- 2023 UF-Fee Form(PDF, 262KB)
- 2022 UF-Fee Form(PDF, 201KB)
- 2021 UF-Fee Form(PDF, 284KB)
- 2020 UF-Fee Form(PDF, 291KB)
- 2019 UF- Fee Form(PDF, 369KB)


- Non Resident Sports Facility Usage Fee Regulations(PDF, 76KB)

EIT - Earned Income Tax

Jordan Tax Service will mail Tax Forms at the beginning of February. Online tax returns cannot be filed until you receive your tax form with your account number & PIN.
Jordan Tax Service724-731-2300custsvc@jordantax.com

Additional Forms and Information Regarding Taxes

Need to change or update your business information? Please complete theChange in Business Status Form(PDF, 1MB).
City of PittsburghDepartment of Finance414 Grant Street Room 207Pittsburgh, PA 15219412-255-2525taxcompliance@pittsburghpa.gov
Need to see if your business is located in the City of Pittsburgh? Open a new browser tab and perform a Google search for theAllegheny County Real Estatewebsite.
Find some additional helpful informational links below:


- Taxpayer Bill of Rights(PDF, 42KB)
- 2022 Tax Rate by Tax Type(PDF, 214KB)
- 2022 Tax Due Date Calendar(PDF, 108KB)
- Facility Usage Fee Information for Performers/Contracting Parties(PDF, 111KB)
- Going out of Business – Fire Sale(PDF, 191KB)
- State of PA Tax Forms & Instructions
- Federal Tax Forms & Instructions

Professional Employer Organizations (PEOs)



- Payroll Expense Tax (ET) Allocation Schedule Form(PDF, 2MB)
- Payroll Expense Tax (ET) Allocation Schedule Form Instructions(PDF, 746KB)
- Local Service Tax (LS-1) Allocation Schedule Form(PDF, 2MB)
- Local Service Tax (LS-1) Allocation Schedule Form Instructions(PDF, 745KB)

General Contractors



- General Contractor Detail Report(PDF, 3MB)
- General Contractor Detail Report Instructions(PDF, 619KB)

Local Services Tax

Find yourWithholding Rates by Address
The annual local service tax reconciliation is not being required for 2023 or 2024.

Local Services Tax Exemption Certificate and Refund Form

Are you Exempt from Paying the Local Services Tax? Review and complete theLocal Services Tax Exemption Certificate(PDF, 2MB)and provide all supporting documentation.
Paid more for Local Services Tax for the year? Complete aLocal Services Tax Refund Form(PDF, 165KB).

Real Estate Taxes

Real Estate Online Payment System
Online payment collected by Magic Collection Solutions
Real Estate Tax is tax collected by the City

Who is Taxed

All owners of real estate located within the City and School District. The market value of the property is determined by the Allegheny County Office of Property Assessment. The taxes are calculated by applying the millage rate to the assessed value.

Discounts

Taxpayers may take a 2% discount on either of the following if taxes are paid by February 10th:


- The total annual tax due, or
- The first installment of tax due

Tax Payment Due Dates



- Last day of February for 1st installment or the annual amount at gross
- April 30th for 2nd installment
- July 31st for 3rd installment
If no payment is made by the last day of February, or if less than the entire first installment amount is paid by the last day of February, the entire year’s taxes become due and payable in full and incur interest charges from March 1st.
Tax bills are mailed in January. Further installment bills are mailed in April and July.

Contact Us

If you have any questions please call 412-255-2525 or visit:
City of Pittsburgh Real Estate Division414 Grant StreetPittsburgh, PA 15219RealEstateTaxInfo@pittsburghpa.gov

Additional Information

Pittsburgh Code Reference Chapter: 263
First Levied: 1816

Real Estate Tax Delinquency


Real Estate Forms


Tax FAQs


Business Tax



- Amusement Tax(PDF, 188KB)
- Institution and Service Privilege Tax(PDF, 150KB)
- Local Services Tax(PDF, 93KB)
- Payroll Expense Tax(PDF, 676KB)
- Facility Usage Fee(PDF, 154KB)
- Parking Tax(PDF, 114KB)
- NSFUF - FAQs about the recent Court of Common Pleas Ruling(PDF, 119KB)
For any other questions contact the Department of Finance at 412-255-2525.

How do I close my business account with the City of Pittsburgh? Who do I contact?

Complete a Change inBusiness Status Form(PDF, 872KB).
You can emailtaxcompliance@pittsburghpa.govor call Taxpayer Services at 412-255-2525 for more information.

Is there a fee associated with paying via Credit Card?

Yes, the convenience fee is 2.00% of Bill Value + 0.25 per transaction.
This fee will be calculated by JetPay at the time you make your tax payment.
This is a separate fee from the tax payment that is paid to JetPay.

When are Real Estate taxes due?

Real Estate Taxes were billed in January.


- The gross amount is due the last day of February.A 2% discount is available if paid in full by February 10th. Real Estate Taxes can also be paid in installments.


    * A 2% discount is available if paid in full by February 10th. Real Estate Taxes can also be paid in installments.
- The first installment is due by the last day of February.
- The second installment is due by the last day of April.
- The third installment is due by the last day of July.A 2% discount can be taken on the 1st installment only if it is paid by February 10th.


    * A 2% discount can be taken on the 1st installment only if it is paid by February 10th.

What happens if I don't pay my Real Estate Taxes?

If you fail to pay your taxes and you owe taxes for at least one prior year, the City, School District of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Library will file a lien through Jordan Tax Service against your property.
Your property can also be sold in a Treasurer’s Sale for the tax delinquency.
We strongly urge you to contact Jordan Tax Service at 412-345-7960 to make payment arrangements to avoid this possibility.

What is the Millage rate for City, School, and Carnegie Library Taxes?



- The 2022 City Real Estate Tax rate is 8.06 mills.
- The 2022 School District Real Estate Tax rate is 10.25 mills.
- The 2022 Carnegie Library Real Estate Tax rate is 0.25 mills.

How are Real Estate Taxes assessed?

City, School and Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh Real Estate Taxes are billed on the fair market value of the property as determined by the Allegheny County Office ofProperty Assessments.

Can I pay my City, School District of Pittsburgh, and Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh Real Estate Taxes by Credit Card?

Yes, you can pay with American Express, Discover Card, Master Card or Visa.
The cost for a debit card is 2.00% of the total bill value +0.25 per transaction. The Electronic Check (E-Check) is a flat fee of $0.50 per transaction.
Pay either credit card or electronic check online.

What is Millage?

A mil is 1/10 of a cent.
For every $1,000.00 of assessment:


- The City Tax would be $8.06
- The School District Tax would be $10.25
- The Carnegie Library Tax would be $0.25

Does the City, School District, or Carnegie Library offer any abatement programs?

The City, School District and Carnegie Library offer several tax abatement programs for both residential (Act 42) and commercial improvements (LERTA).
Allegheny County also participates in several of the programs.
Details on these programs can be found in theAbatement Table(PDF, 22KB).

Does the City, School District, and Carnegie Library offer payment plans for delinquent taxes?

Yes, if you are having difficulty paying your taxes, the City of Pittsburgh does offer payment plans and hardship plans if you qualify.
Please call Jordan Tax Services at 412-345-7960 for information.

What is the Library Tax?

The first year this tax was assessed was 2012.
On November 8, 2011 voters in the City of Pittsburgh overwhelmingly approved a 0.25 mill special tax (equivalent to $25 per year on $100,000 of assessed property) on all taxable real estate in the City of Pittsburgh to be allocated and used only for the operation and maintenance of Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh.
Allegheny County also participates in several of the programs.
The Carnegie Library tax due is on the same bill as your City and School District property taxes.

Do you need a permit for PODS?

Please contact the Department of Public Works Permit Office at 412-255-2370 or visitOneStopPGH.

Does the City, School District, or Carnegie Library offer any tax relief programs?

Yes, there are two tax relief programs in the City of Pittsburgh:
Homestead Tax Exemption-(Act 50)


- Offered by the City of Pittsburgh since 2001, this program reduces the taxable value of your home.
- The City of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Library Homestead reduction is $15,000 – a tax savings of $120.90 and $3.75, respectively.
- (Act 1) Offered by the School District of Pittsburgh since 2009. The reduction amount can vary from year to year, based on gaming revenue. For 2016, the reduction is $29,447, a tax savings of $289.76.
- A 2% discount is available if paid in full by February 10th. Real Estate Taxes can also be paid in installments.
- To receive the Homestead Exemption, the property must be owner occupied. Taxpayers who have applied for the Allegheny County Homestead program will automatically receive the City, School District and Carnegie Library exemption; you do not have to submit a separate application.
- Applications for the Homestead Exemption are available throughAllegheny County.
Senior Tax Relief (Act 77)


- This program is available toeligible owners(PDF, 473KB).
- The reduction is 40% of the full value assessment.
- Viewapplication forms for this tax relief program.
- For more information on eligibility requirements please call the City at 412-255-2525 or Allegheny County Treasurer's Office at 412-350-4100.

How do I change the mailing address for my tax bills?

Address changes can be made over the phone by calling 412-255-2525.
This change is in effect until December 31st of each year.
Permanent address changes must be done through the Allegheny County Treasurer’s office at 412-350-4100.
You can request by letter by writing to:
City of PittsburghReal Estate Tax Dept.414 Grant StreetPittsburgh, PA 15219

What is the Parks Tax?

In November of 2019, voters in the City of Pittsburgh approved a referendum that amended the City of Pittsburgh Home Rule Charter to establish a trust fund to collect funds for the improvement of the City's parks. The Parks Tax shall be funded, in part, by adding 0.50 mills to the real estate tax rate. The Parks Tax Trust Fund may also receive monies and contributions from additional sources.

New Business Registration

The City of Pittsburgh offers the following options to register your business.
(It is advised to download theNew Business Registration(PDF, 3MB)and complete it inAdobe Reader)
Online- Please click on the New Business Registration link below, download and save the form as a PDF. Right click and open the form using Adobe Reader. Please complete and sign the form and then email it toregistration@pittsburghpa.gov. Please allow up to5-10 business daysfor your business to be registered. Your business isnotregistered until you receive a verification letter from the Department of Finance.
Mailing- Click on the New Business Registration link below, download and save the form as a PDF. Right click and open the form using Adobe Reader. Complete, print and mail the form below to: Registration, City of Pittsburgh, 414 Grant Street RM 207, Pittsburgh, PA 15219-2476 Business Registration Form
Walk-in- You can also register your business by coming into the Department of Finance.
Please call412-255-2525to have the registration form mailed to you, or to have any questions you have answered.
New Business Registration(PDF, 3MB)
If your business is already registered with the City of Pittsburgh and you need to make updates to your business information? Complete theChange in Business Status Form(PDF, 1MB).
Every person having an office, factory, workshop, branch, warehouse, or other place of business, including banks, schools, hospitals, non-profit, and trade associations, located in the City or outside the City, who, during any tax year, performs work or renders services in whole or in part in the City, who has not previously registered, shall within fifteen (15) days, register with the Treasurer its name and address and shall provide such other information as the Treasurer may require.- Chapter 258 of the City Code

Real Estate

Real Estate Online Payment System
Online payment collected by Magic Collection Solutions
Attention: Effective September 2, 2024 all Request to Purchase applications must be submitted through ouronline portal. Paper applications and applications sent via email will no longer be accepted. A $25 application fee per property will apply.
The Real Estate Division of the Department of Finance accepts questions from the general public for purchase of properties.
The City makes certain that the requested property is not needed for public improvement. The prospective purchaser submits a request to become a qualified buyer.
A qualified buyer is one who:


- has paid taxes, water, sewage, etc.
- is in compliance with City codes and policies.
The approved prospective purchaser is notified of the price in the response letter to the Request to Purchase form.

Properties for Sale

Browse Available City Owned Properties
Learn more about our "Court Auction" property process(PDF, 141KB)
Effective 10-31-2024, Legislation 2024-0776, Enactment # 763, the City's Side Yard Sale Program has been suspended indefinitely. Any Side Yard Sales in progress or have an offer letter sent prior to 10-31-2024 will be honored. If you have received a Side Yard Program Offer Letter, you must sign your proposal by12-06-2024.


- Request to Include a property in a Future Treasurer’s Sale (No Fill Version)(PDF, 2MB)
- Request to Include a property in a Future Treasurer’s Sale (Fillable Version)(PDF, 2MB)
For additional information about the vacant lots, call the Real Estate Division at:412-255-2300

Real Estate Frequently Asked Questions


Do I have to live within the City of Pittsburgh to be eligible to buy property?

No. You do not have to be a resident of the City of Pittsburg to be eligible to purchase city-owned property.

Do I have to own property within the City of Pittsburgh to be eligible?

No. It is not a requirement of the Request to Purchase form that you own property in the city or even at all. Renters can purchase property as long as they are approved.

Can I request multiple properties on my Request to Purchase form?

No. There can only be one piece of property requested per form. If you are requesting multiple properties, each piece will require a new, separate, Request to Purchase form.

Why do the prices online all say “TBD?”

Pricing of all properties will be done after you are approved as a buyer.

There are properties I see on the Allegheny County Real Estate Portal that are owned by the City of Pittsburgh but are not on the website, why?

Those properties are owned by the City of Pittsburgh but are currently not available for sale. If that designation changes, the property will be uploaded to the eProperty Plus website and will be shown as available.

What type of correspondence will I get from the City regarding the price and sale?

You will receive a letter to your given address regarding your approval and the outcome and sale price of the property. That letter will have information and the directions to the next step of the sales process.

How much money will I need to start my sale?

You will be required to place 10% of the total purchase price or $200 (whichever is greater) down in hand money to officially start your sale with the city.

If my request to purchase gets denied do I have to start the sales process all over again?

No. You will have the opportunity to fix and resubmit the Request to Purchase form without having to start from the beginning.

Can I view the property/properties that I requested before I am approved?

No. You will be able to set a date and time to view the property once you have been approved and received a correspondence letter from the City.

Will I get the properties purchased from the City of Pittsburgh with a clear title?

Yes. The title and property will be free and clear of all back taxes and liens when you close on the property.

What happens if City Council does not approve the sale of the property?

If City Council does not approve the sale of your property, the 10% (or $200) hand money that you placed to start your sale will be returned to you in full.

Finance Permits & Licenses


City of Pittsburgh Online Alarm Permit Registration

Please log intoOneStopPGH.Pittsburghpa.govto apply for and renew your Fire/Burglar Alarm Registration permits. If you have any questions, please contact the Fire Bureau atFireInfo@pittsburghpa.gov.

Dog License Information

Please seeAnimal Controllocated n Public Safety.

Debt Obligations

The City of Pittsburgh issues debt to fund capital needs and economic improvement projects and refinance existing debt. The City makes targeted capital investments to support economic growth, strengthen communities, and improve the quality of life in Pittsburgh. These investments include funding for the public infrastructure to support private development and job growth as well as local infrastructure improvements and protection of the City’s natural resources. These capital investments are planned and funded through the capital budget. Most of the capital budget is funded by the issuance of bonds. The City’s authority to issue debt comes from the City’s Home Rule Charter. All debt shall be issued in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and city requirements governing the issuance of public debt.
The City of Pittsburgh has issued and currently makes debt service payments on General Obligation bonds or GO bonds. These are bonds that are backed by the full faith and credit of the City of Pittsburgh, which has the power to tax residents to pay bondholders. As such, the City uses a portion of its property tax revenues to repay the General Obligation Bonds in the form of annual principal and interest payments. The City of Pittsburgh makes principal and interest payments on the outstanding debt obligations on a semi- annual basis in March and September of each fiscal year. As of April 2018, the City of Pittsburgh had a total of $382,610,000 in outstanding debt obligations (principal only). The General Obligations Bonds have a fixed coupon rate ranging between 2% to 6.6% throughout the bonds life span. Below is a summary of the overall debt outstanding per bond issued.

City of Pittsburgh, Overall Summary of Debt Outstanding as of April 1, 2018


Debt Affordability Metrics


Credit Ratings


Contact Finance

The Finance office is located on the 2nd Floor, City-County Building, 414 Grant Street.
Taxpayer Services412.255.2525
New Business Registration412.255.2543
Administrative Division412.255.2582
Collections & Compliance412.255.2525
Amusement Tax412.255.2525
Parking Tax412.255.2525
Financial Control412.255.8654
Real Estate Tax412.255.2525
City Properties for Sale412.255.2300
Leasing City Property412.255.8958

Hours of Operation

Monday - Friday7:30a.m. - 4:00p.m.Excluding Holidays

About Finance

The Finance Department is responsible for the collection, deposit, and investment of all funds received by the City from any source. The Department bills and collects tax and fee revenue, intergovernmental payments, certain grant payments, lease payments, and other payments due to the City to be used for budgeted expenditures. The Department also manages tax abatements (including homestead and senior citizen exemptions), tracks tax increment financing, and performs audits designed to help business taxpayers to submit returns correctly. The Department is also the designated tax collector for the Pittsburgh School District as well as the Carnegie Library.
In addition to collections of revenue, the Finance Department performs a number of other functions. This includes the sale of tax delinquent property through Treasurer’s Sales, sale of City-owned property, tax assessment appeals, and city-wide cash management. The Department performs tax audits and ensures that money owed to the City is collected fairly. The Department also manages City debt through bonds and borrowing as well as manages the City’s Comprehensive Municipal Pension Trust Fund, with liabilities exceeding $1.2 billion dollars. Lastly, the Department also facilitates city-wide annual single and pension audits.

Divisions


Administrative Division

412-255-2582


- Includes the General Office Staff which supports the overall operation of the department, as well as other City government functions.

Collections & Compliance

412-255-2525
This division consists of current billing and processing, delinquent billing and compliance through auditing and investigations. It is responsible for all self-assessed taxes including:


- Earned Income Tax
- Payroll Expense Tax
- Local Services Tax
- Amusement Tax
- Parking Tax
- Institution and Service Privilege Tax
- Facility Usage Fees

Financial Control

412-255-8654


- Manages the City's financial portfolio to bring the greatest rate of return on investment of available funds.
- Provides debt service administration, account balancing, and daily funds investment.
- Comprised of Revenue Investments, Cashier Processing, and Control.

Real Estate Division

412-255-2525
This division is responsible for:


- All Real Estate Tax billing and collections, including Treasurer's Sales.
- The City Real Estate Tax applies to all individuals or businesses owning real estate located within the City and Pittsburgh School District.
- The millage rate is applied to the assessed value, which is 100 percent of the market value as determined by the Allegheny County Board of Assessors.

Properties for Sale

412-255-2525
This unit manages, maintains, and markets properties acquired by the City due to delinquency. Please visit theProperties for Sale page!

Waiver and Refund Request

Use the Request for Penalty Waiver Form to request an abatement of penalty assessed on delinquent business taxes. Refer to the instruction document below to help you complete the City of Pittsburgh's Request for Penalty Waiver Form. Include all necessary documentation to support your claim.
Form Instructions(PDF, 742KB)
Request for Penalty Waiver Form(PDF, 3MB)

Local Services Tax Exemption Certificate and Refund Form

Are you Exempt from Paying the Local Services Tax? Review and complete theLocal Services Tax Exemption Certificate(PDF, 230KB)and provide all supporting documentation.
Paid more for Local Services Tax for the year? Complete aLocal Services Tax Refund Form(PDF, 165KB).

Fee Schedule


2024 Fee Schedule

The 2024 Fee Schedule was approved via Resolution 909 of 2023 and amended by Resolution 485 of 2024.The current 2024 Fee Schedule, as Amended, can be found here(PDF, 210KB).

Management & Budget


What We Do

The mission of the Office of Management and Budget is to ensure the effective and efficient use of resources in order to sustain the delivery of quality services to the residents of the City of Pittsburgh. The Office of Management and Budget serves as a strategic business partner to promote actions to achieve the City’s priorities; establish and maintain sound fiscal policies; deliver a clear and accurate picture of the City’s current and future financial position; improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and integration of the City’s financial management processes; provide excellent customer service to internal and external customers; and stimulate behaviors across the organization to achieve strategic and financial objectives.
Fleet OperationsCommunity DevelopmentBudgets and ReportsAbout Office of Management and BudgetGrants OfficeBudget EngagementProcurementOMB Contacts

Fleet Operations


Community Development


Budgets and Reports


About Office of Management and Budget


Grants Office


Budget Engagement


Procurement


OMB Contacts


About Office of Management and Budget

The mission of the Office of Management and Budget ("OMB") is to ensure the effective and efficient use of available resources in order to sustain the delivery of quality services to the residents of the City of Pittsburgh.The Office of Management and Budget is organized into the following core teams to strengthen citywide financial and grant management:

Management

This team provides overall leadership and direction for the City and oversees departmental planning and management functions.

Capital and Asset Management

This team is responsible for the preparation and implementation of the annual capital budget and six-year capital improvement program; planning and administration of the City’s asset management function; and the development and financial oversight of the City’s long-term infrastructure investment plan.

Community Development

This team coordinates programs that provide the City with resources to address a wide range of unique community needs. The primary goals of the Community Development Division are to improve housing conditions; foster community and economic development; improve public facilities; and improve and enhance the quality of life for residents of the City of Pittsburgh, most specifically those with low-income. These initiatives are funded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and include the following programs: Community Development Block Grant ('CDBG"), Home Investment Partnership ('HOME"), Emergency Shelter Grant ("ESG"), and Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS ("HOPWA").

Operating and Special Revenue

This team is responsible for the preparation and implementation of the annual operating budget and five-year forecast; long-term financial planning; financial policy development; maximizing opportunities to pursue, secure, and effectively administer grants from federal, state, county, corporate, and foundation partners; leading the transformation of the City’s finance functions, talent, processes, and technologies; and the management of enterprise-wide projects that will have a significant financial and/or operational impact. The Grants Office is housed within this group.

Procurement

This team is responsible for organizing and directing the day-to-day operations of the procurement function; driving improvements in procurement processes, policies, and technology; and implementing cost management initiatives related to procurement, warehousing, and inventory management.

Budgets and Reports

The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is responsible for preparing the Mayor’s Annual Budget and begins preparation in May. Throughout the summer, OMB analysts meet with departments to discuss baseline budgets, requests, position changes, organizational changes, departmental highlights, and new objectives. The analysts present requests and recommendations to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget who will make final recommendations to the Mayor. The Mayor then presents a preliminary operating and capital budget to City Council on or prior to September 30 of each calendar year. The Mayor formally submits the proposed budgets to City Council on the second Monday of November of each fiscal year, pursuant to Chapter 505 of the Home Rule Charter.
City Council reviews the budget and holds a number of meetings and televised hearings with Departments. After consideration of public input and priorities, City Council makes minor changes and adopts the budget.
OMB is responsible for implementing and overseeing the City of Pittsburgh’s operating and capital budgets. Throughout the fiscal year, OMB monitors the City’s expenditures and revenue receipts, provides legislative overseeing on any matters related to the budget, and oversees budget transfers and adjustments. Analysts in OMB prepare quarterly reports on the performance of major revenue sources and expenditure categories, reports on key factors driving the budget, cash flow, and brief updates on important management initiatives.

Capital Budgets


Operating Budgets


Quarterly Financial Reports


American Rescue Plan Reporting


Other Reports


Budget Engagement

All surveys, simulations, meeting registration links, recordings of meeting videos, helpful links, and other tools related tothe City’s Capital and Operating Budget engagement process are hosted on a centralized page within theCity’s EngagePGH platform.

Grants Office

The mission of the Grants Office is to increase the City’s capacity and capability to compete for federal, state and foundation grants. Additionally, the office effectively assists in the management of grants from award to closeout.

Grants Office Functions



- Promote collaboration and coordination between City departments, Authorities, and the Mayor’s Office when it comes to the grants process.
- Foster partnerships between the private, public and foundation sectors.
- City-wide guidelines and procedures for how departments apply for and manage grants.
- Serve as a resource for all steps of the grants research, award and management process for all City departments.

Grants Manual

To learn more about how to best utilize the Grants Office, check out our new grants manual, hot off the press! Our goal is give you a user-friendly, step-by-step guide to understand both the grantseeking and post-award grant management processes.
By removing some of the overly technical language and mystery from these historically confusing processes, we hope departments will feel more comfortable engaging regularly with the Grants Office.
Grant Manual(PDF, 642KB)

Fleet Operations

The City of Pittsburgh operates an average of 1,100 vehicles, boats, and trailers which are purchased and owned by the Equipment Leasing Authority and maintained by First Vehicle Services at the City owned garage in the Strip District. As new vehicles are added to the fleet, retired vehicles are decommissioned and sold on the City's online auction.
The City utilizes an average of 275 Public Works maintenance trucks and trailers, 48 refuse trucks, 24 recycling trucks, 65 ambulance and rescue units, 60 fire trucks, and 250 Police patrol units.
The goal of Fleet Operations is to provide safe, dependable, cost effective equipment, and furnish quality vehicle maintenance services to City departments.
Services include:


- Fleet Procurement:Annual procurement of fleet replacements including the development of exact specifications
- Equipment Management System:Software program that provides the vital information needed to efficiently operate the City's fleet, including electronic and hard copy reporting.
- Automated Fuel Dispensing:For City equipment and other designated entities, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
- Mansfield Fuel Card Management:Voyager fuel cards are available for Public Safety vehicles who may require the use of a public fueling stations. Accounts are managed through the Mansfield FuelNet online management tool.
- Motor Pool Management:Furnished to meet agencies special needs in providing services to their customers
- Preventive Maintenance Program:Conforming to Original Equipment Manufacturers standards
- Roadside Assistance & Towing:24 hours a day, 7 days a week
- Vehicle Maintenance:General hours of operation are from 7:00AM – 7:30PM, Monday through Friday. Emergency service callouts are available 24 hours per day, 365 days per year.
- Warranty Services:Available for many of the Original Equipment Manufacturers
- Online Auctions:When equipment owned by the City of Pittsburgh has run its useful life for the City, it is auctioned online through a partnership with one of two online auction services,GovDealsandGovPlanet. Assets ranging from desks and filing cabinets, to vehicles and heavy equipment are auctioned off as they are decommissioned.

OMB Contacts


Administration

Main: 412-255-2640
Jake PawlakDirector
Kyle ChintalapalliChief Economic Development Officer
Patrick CornellChief Financial Officer
Lisa FrankChief Operating & Administrative Officer
Jennifer OlzingerChief Procurement Officer
Stephanie GagneManagement Analyst
David MaynardManagement Analyst
Chrystal MartinExecutive Assistant
Christine OliverExecutive Assistant
April O’NeilFiscal & Contracting Coordinator
Laurie LoperBudget Accounts Technician

Capital Budget and Asset Management

Main: 412-255-2640
David HutchinsonAssistant Director
Brendan CoticchiaCapital Budget Manager
Eric ShultzBudget Analyst

Community Development

Kelly RussellAssistant Director & Labor Compliance Officer412-255-2667
Joshua RolonProgram Supervisor412-255-2227
Michael KnightFiscal & Contracting Supervisor412-255-2104
Amanda RineerEnvironmental Review Coordinator412-255-2162
Gisele BetancesProgram Coordinator412-255-2211
Nathan GrahamProgram Coordinator II412-255-2235
Amber "AJ" StephensSenior Program Coordinator412-255-2213
Aryana Williams-SwansonProgram Coordinator412-255-2665
Blake MullennixSenior Program Coordinator412-255-0740

Fleet

Email:fleetservices@pittsburghpa.gov
Firmin Maurice IVSenior Fleet Services Manager412-652-9398
Jamie JonesFleet Contract Administrator412-255-2035
Branwyn TurnageFleet Coordinator412-652-9403

Grants Office

Amanda BurkhartActing Grants Manager412-255-6782
Andrew ShullGrants Officer412-255-8924

Operating Budget

Main: 412-255-2640
Linnea LincolnAssistant Director
Sheri RolewskiSenior Budget Analyst
Elizabeth CerconeSenior Budget Analyst
Avery HartBudget Analyst
Alex WagnerBudget Analyst

Procurement

Email:procurement@pittsburghpa.gov
Joshua LamondeSenior Sourcing Specialist412-255-0807
Kathy NievesSenior Sourcing Specialist412-255-2483
Matthew MarshmanSourcing Specialist412-255-0807
Jacob GoldmanSourcing Specialist412-255-2422
Jessica NusserSourcing Specialist412-255-2422
Stacey RoachProcurement Coordinator412-255-8677
Omoye AikhueleSustainable Procurement Specialist412-255-0805

Community Development

Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://www.youtube.com/embed/O1VctImoz_k
The Community Development Division of the Office of Management and Budget administers and monitors federal grants to the City of Pittsburgh. The programs, theCommunity Development Block Grant (CDBG),Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG),HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME), andHousing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA), are grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
HOME, which focuses on encouraging affordable housing, is administered by the Urban Redevelopment Authority. HOPWA, which focuses on providing housing for persons with HIV/AIDS, is administered by the Jewish Healthcare Foundation. These organizations are responsible for reporting to the Community Development Division.
The City of Pittsburgh uses CDBG funds for many different improvement projects, such as repairing roads and demolishing vacant buildings. Nonprofits can also apply to receive funds from CDBG and ESG through the City, which they will use to benefit people with low to moderate incomes, people experiencing homelessness, or neighborhoods in need of economic development. CDBG funds are awarded by the City asPublic Service Grants (PSG)andNeighborhood Economic Development Grants (NED).
If you represent an organization interested in receiving funding, please visit the program page for more information.
If you are an individual interested in participating in making decisions about funding priorities or learning more about our current activities, please visit ourPublic Engagement page.
The Community Development Division does not assist individuals directly. If you are in need of services, please see ourResources for Individuals document(PDF, 139KB).
Sign up for our mailing list!

Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)


Public Service Grant


Neighborhood Economic Development (NED)


Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) Program


Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA)


HOME Investment Partnerships Program


Community Development Documents


Community Development Documents Archives


Public Participation


Grant Opportunities


Resources for Subrecipients


Environmental Review


CDBG Eligible Tracts Map

