
Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs


What is Welcoming Pittsburgh?

The Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs (OIRA) within the Mayor's Office was established in January 2022, to build on the work started by the Welcoming Pittsburgh Initiative in 2014. This initiative was guided by theWelcoming Pittsburgh Roadmap, 37 recommendations and emerging priorities identified by 40 leaders from diverse sectors and over 3,000 community members.
OIRA has continued to work towards its historical goals and objectives related to making Pittsburgh a city that is committed to the inclusion of its immigrant populations.

Welcoming Communities Network

The City of Pittsburgh's Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs (OIRA) has a Welcoming Communities network of stakeholders representing service organizations, immigrant leaders, city departments and government-adjacent organizations.

Renting to Refugees

A session for landlords to learn about the opportunity to rent to refugees in partnership with refugee resettlement agencies

Immigrant & Refugee Regional Data


Latinos in Pittsburgh


Newsletter Signup

Keep in touch with us more often by subscribing to our newsletter.

Welcoming Communities Network

The City of Pittsburgh's Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs (OIRA) has a Welcoming Communities network of stakeholders representing service organizations, immigrant leaders, city departments and government-adjacent organizations. OIRA ensures regular communication through the monthly Welcoming Communities meetings, which offer a forum for connecting stakeholders and sharing ideas, programs, challenges, and opportunities.
If you are an individual or organization doing work to make Pittsburgh a welcoming city and would like to collaborate, please reach out to be included in our welcoming community's forum and email group. Email us at:welcomingpgh@pittsburghpa.gov.
The Welcoming Communities Network platform is made possible by partnerships with local stakeholders who know our immigrant, refugee, and asylee communities best. It’s with our partners’ support that we have been able to make strides towards making Pittsburgh a more welcoming city for all. We’d like to thank all of our partners for their support.

Renting to Refugees

This is an educational session to support landlords renting to refugees.
This session will cover the following, in reference to renting properties to refugees in Pittsburgh:


- Economic opportunity
- Technical assistance
- Compliance education
- Cultural understanding

Session Materials



- Renting to refugee Program Toolkit(PDF, 5MB)
- Renting to Refugees in Allegheny County Overview(PDF, 77KB)
- Renting to Refugees in Allegheny County FAQ(PDF, 77KB)
- Refugee Resettlement Facts Sheet(JPG, 248KB)
- Refugees in Allegheny County Snapshot(PDF, 2MB)
- Renting to Refugees in Allegheny County Recap (May 28th session)(PDF, 62KB)
Please email any questions torefugeehousing@pittsburghpa.gov.

Additional Resources

Renting to Refugees Virtual Program (Zoom)Passcode: R59N@zgX

Immigrant & Refugee Regional Data



- Commonly Spoken Languages By Zone (2022)(PDF, 370KB)
- Overview of Immigrant Populations in Allegheny County(PDF, 354KB)

New Americans in Pittsburgh

The “New Americans in Pittsburgh” report from the American Immigration Council, published on September 11, 2023, shows that immigrants in Pittsburgh contributed approximately $3.5 billion to the city’s gross domestic product (GDP), or 11.1 percent of its GDP.
The report, New Americans in Pittsburgh, was prepared in partnership with the City of Pittsburgh’s Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs, as part of the Council’s and Welcoming America’sGateways for Growth Challenge, which includes tailored research on the local immigrant population.
The report also features profiles of community members:Khara Timsina,Brent Rondon,Ebtehal Badawi, andDavid Hajayandi.

Key Findings:



- Immigrants are helping the city meet its labor force demands. Immigrants made up 9.0 percent of the city’s population but accounted for 9.2 percent of its employed labor force.
- Immigrants are helping Pittsburgh meet its rising labor needs in key industries.Immigrants represented 17.7 percent of STEM workers, 16.1 percent of education workers, and 13.1 percent of manufacturing workers.
- Immigrants support the federal safety net.Immigrants in Pittsburgh contributed $93.9 million to Social Security and $26.8 million to Medicare in 2019.
- Immigrants in Pittsburgh help create or preserve local manufacturing jobs. Immigrants strengthened the local job market by allowing companies to keep jobs on U.S. soil, helping preserve or create 1,200 local manufacturing jobs that would have otherwise been eliminated or moved elsewhere by 2019.

Latinos in Pittsburgh


Antonio Martinez, USA / Mexico

Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://player.vimeo.com/video/486072073

Diego Chaves-Gnecco, USA / Colombia

Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://player.vimeo.com/video/461111451

Beatriz Luna, USA / Chile

Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://player.vimeo.com/video/438456036

Shelbin Santos, USA / Peru

Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://player.vimeo.com/video/424035361

Idario Santos, USA / Brazil

Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://player.vimeo.com/video/406431382

José María Ochoa, USA / Mexico

Your browser does not support inline frames.Please visithttps://player.vimeo.com/video/394451824

Newsletter Signup

Keep in touch with us more often by subscribing to our newsletter.
Sign-up Here
