
City County Task Force on Disability


Function

The City-County Task Force on Disabilities is a 13-member panel of advocates, service providers, and consumers appointed by the Mayor and County Executive who advise the City and County on issues that affect people with disabilities in the region. The Task Force meets on the third Monday of every month.

Governing Documents

Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement – Joint Task Force on Disabilities


- Guidelines of the City-County Task Force on Disabilities(PDF, 134KB)

Appointment Guidelines

13 Members


- Six appointed by County Executive
- Six appointed by Mayor of Pittsburgh
- One elected by the other 12 appointees

Members


City Appointees:



- Sacoyia Bey
- Tess Dally
- Tyi-Sanna Jones
- Paul O’Hanlon
- Mark Schmeler
- Vidya Surti,Secretary

County Appointees:



- Cori Frazer
- Sarah Goldstein
- James “Chris” Noschese.Chair
- Vanessa Rastović
- John Tague,Treasurer
- Karen Warman-Smith

CCTFD Appointee:



- Paul “Rich” McGann

Meetings

The Task Force meets on the third Monday of every month, except holidays.
Join the virtual meeting


- You will be added as an attendee. This will allow you to watch the meeting, but will not allow you to speak until called upon.
- If you would like to speak on a topic, please use the “raise hand” function to signify to the host that you would like to speak. You will be called on and given the opportunity to present at that time.
Register for the upcoming Task Force meeting
To receive updates and announcements about the City-County Task Force on Disabilities via email, please send your information toADA@pittsburghpa.gov.
Meeting Archive - All past meetings can be viewed at theCity's Legistarsite.

Contact Us

ADA Coordinator
ADA@pittsburghpa.gov

Make an Accommodations Request

This Request for Accommodation form was established to meet the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), as amended. The Americans with Disabilities Act is a federal civil rights law that provides people with disabilities equal access to employment, state and local government programs, goods and services. The City of Pittsburgh is committed to making programs, services, and facilities accessible to all people. Under Title II of the ADA, the City of Pittsburgh is required to ensure that our facilities, services, and programs are accessible to people with disabilities and in compliance with the ADA. The City will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with a disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of policy.
ADA Coordinator Michelle WalkerMayor’s Office of Equal Protection414 Grant Street, 5th FloorPittsburgh, PA 15219
Alternative means of filing complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint will be made available for persons with disabilities upon request.

ADA Accommodation Request Form

Instructions: Please fill out the form completely. Once you have done so, please hit “submit.” If a required field does not apply, please enter “N/A.” If you do not know the information under required filed, please enter “unknown.”
Click here to view form.

CCB Accessibility Entrance

Accessible entrance to the City-County Building is located on the Ross Street side.

File a Grievance

This Grievance Procedure was established to meet the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). It may be used by anyone who wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in employment, practices and policies or the provision of services, activities, programs or benefits by the City of Pittsburgh. For employment-related matters, all City employees and/or applicants for City employment should refer to the separate ADA Accommodations Policies available on the ADA webpage.
The complaint should be submitted by the grievant and/or his/her designee as soon as possible, but no later than 60 calendar days after the alleged violation to:
Michelle Walker - ADA CoordinatorMayor’s Office of Equal Protection414 Grant Street, 5th FloorPittsburgh, PA 15219
Alternative means of filing complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint will be made available for persons with disabilities upon request.

Grievance Procedure

After receipt of the complaint, the ADA Coordinator will meet with the grievant to discuss the complaint and the possible solutions. The ADA Coordinator will respond in writing, and when appropriate, in a format accessible to the grievant. The response will explain the position of the City of Pittsburgh and offer options for substantive resolution of the complaint.
If the response by the ADA Coordinator does not satisfactorily resolve the issue, the grievant and/or their designee may appeal the decision of the ADA Coordinator after receipt of the response to the Manager, Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection, who will convene the appropriate City departments and personnel to review and address the appeal.
After receipt of the appeal, the Manager, Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection will meet with the grievant to discuss the complaint and possible resolutions. After the meeting, the Manager, Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection will respond in writing, and when appropriate, in a format accessible to the grievant, with a final resolution of the complaint.
The City of Pittsburgh will keep all written complaints received by the ADA Coordinator and appeals to the Manager, Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection, as well as all responses from the ADA Coordinator and Manager, Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection, for at least three years.

Grievance Form

Instructions: Please fill out the form completely. Once you have done so, please hit “submit.” If a required field does not apply, please enter “N/A.” If you do not know the information under required filed, please enter “unknown.”
Click here to view form.

Office of Equal Protection News

Michelle Walker is focused on access for all as the city prepares its second-ever ADA transition plan - 7.29.24
Michelle Walker teaches Pittsburgh employees ASL and advocates for disability - 7.29.24
City of Pittsburgh Awards Contract for ADA Transition Plan - 4.22.24(PDF, 51KB)
Complaints About Pittsburgh’s Sick Leave Law Make No Sense - 1.9.24
Pittsburgh to begin "strict enforcement" of Paid Sick Days Act - 1.4.24
Pittsburgh to begin "strict enforcement" of Paid Sick Days Act - 1.4.24
City of Pittsburgh will start checks to ensure food service employees have paid sick days - 1.3.24
The City of Pittsburgh’s Office of Equal Protection to Strictly Enforce Paid Sick Days Act - 1.3.24(PDF, 69KB)
Pittsburghers have the right to paid sick leave - and they should use it - 9.7.23
Pittsburgh revived a program to pressure landlords of problem bars. It still hasn't been used - 8.8.23
Pittsburgh creates Office of Equal Protection to enforce disability and civil rights, labor laws - 7.7.23
Pittsburgh set to relaunch program that fines 'problem properties' - 9.8.22

FAQs


What is the City of Pittsburgh ADA Coordinator’s role?

The City of Pittsburgh ADA Coordinator ensures that all citizens have the opportunity to participate meaningfully in the programs and services offered by the City of Pittsburgh. This role uniquely bridges policy, infrastructure, and strategic planning to prevent discrimination against individuals with disabilities. She collaborates with other public, private, nonprofit, and community organizations to help Pittsburgh become more inclusive to residents and visitors across ability.

I have an accessibility concern with the City of Pittsburgh.

Contact the City ADA Coordinator, Michelle Walker, at:


- Email:ada@pittsburghpa.gov
- Phone: 412-255-2611

I have an accessibility concern and live in Allegheny County, but not the City of Pittsburgh.

Contact the County ADA Coordinator, Caylin Snyder, at:


- Email:Caylin.Snyder@alleghenycounty.us.
- Office Ph: 412-301-5265

I have a discrimination concern that occurred in Pittsburgh but is unrelated to the City of Pittsburgh.

Contact thePittsburgh Commission on Human Relations, which investigates instances of discrimination and seeks resolutions for anyone who has experienced harm because of discrimination.

I would like to apply for an accessible residential parking space.

Please Dial 3-1-1 or 412-255-2621. The operator will ask a few questions to determine eligibility to apply for an accessible residential parking space.

I would like to have an accessible parking sign removed.

Either:


- Submit a request, under "Parking", "Handicap Parking Signs, Removal"
- Dial 3-1-1 or 412-255-2621.
