
Ambulance Division

The Ambulance Division is comprised of 13 Medic Units and 2 BLS Ambulances receiving calls from the 911 dispatch center 24 hours/day. The Division is overseen by a minimum of two District Chiefs during normal daily operations.
Medic Units are spread across Pittsburgh better allowing for the most effective and efficient response. Also, in coordination with the Center for Emergency Medicine, a Physician is able to respond to the scene at the request of our Paramedics to assist with the treatment of particularly critical patients.
In addition to emergency treatment and transport of patients, the Ambulance Division provides medical coverage for special events throughout the City of Pittsburgh.

Station Locations

Note:MCU-1 is a Mass Casualty Unit available as a Region 13 asset. This Rescue truck is a non-staffed truck that responds to Mass-Casualty incidents. This vehicle is equipped with ten sets of Advanced Life Support gear with extra long back boards and other gear and equipment needed at a large incident.

What is a Paramedic?

Highly trained paramedics initiate treatment to stabilize patients prior to commencing transport to the hospital. In some cases a Paramedic can completely reverse the condition allowing for the patient to remain at home. For specific conditions, stabilizing the patient at the scene frequently allows for the reversal of life-threatening conditions that otherwise would result in a long term detrimental outcome if treatment was postponed until arrival at a hospital.
Paramedics administer treatment and medications for a variety of conditions including: chest pain, trouble breathing, heart failure and emphysema as well as treating a host of other medical conditions. We also treat patients with various traumatic injuries ranging from the broken nose to the most significantly injured patients.
All of our Paramedics are also state certified in various rescue practices, which allows all of our personnel to interchangeably work on either a Medic Unit or Rescue Truck. Many of our Paramedics are also certified in numerous other categories that allow our personnel to respond to calls for assistance from specialty teams such as the Urban Search and Rescue Team, PA Strike Team-1, Allegheny County Hazmat Medical Response Team, City of Pittsburgh HazMat and Allegheny County HazMat, just to name a few. As well as being certified in so many different domains, many of our Paramedics are actually instructors in a wide variety of Public Safety disciplines and several serve as field preceptors for Paramedic students and emergency physicians.

What's on your Medic Unit?

Every Medic Unit in the Bureau is certified by The PA Department of Health - Bureau of EMS to meet the requirements set forth by the state detailing the equipment and supplies that must be carried to adequately treat the ill and injured residents and visitors of the City. A brief list of what you can find on an ambulance would include the following equipment and supplies:


- Oxygen
- Oxygen Masks/Nasal Cannulas
- ZOLL Cardiac Monitor/Defibrillator
- Bandaging/Splinting supplies
- Backboard/Cervical Immobilization Devices
- IV Supplies and Fluids
- Medications
- Basic and Advanced Airway Supplies and Equipment
- Stretcher and Linens
- Specialized Pediatric Equipment
- Portable Suction Unit
- Small and Large Hand Tools
- PFDs (Life Jackets)
- Child Safety Seat
- Personal Protective Equipment
- HazMat Equipment
- Water Rescue Rope Throw Bag
- Various Other Equipment and Supplies

Special Event Operations


Special Events and Units

When the stadiums, parks and neighborhood attractions of Pittsburgh draw in a large crowd, Pittsburgh EMS is there.
Pittsburgh EMS is dedicated to serving the needs of the public. Special Operations makes its personnel available and prepared at each one of these events with an array of equipment should any problems present themselves.

Motorcycle Medics

Pittsburgh EMS has four specially equipped Harley Davison Motorcycles containing Advanced Life Support equipment. Paramedics specially trained in how to safely operate these motorcycles use them to quickly maneuver through traffic and crowds at large outdoor events and many places that a normal ambulance cannot fit. The Motorcycle Unit is often credited with performing lifesaving interventions in areas that would be difficult to access by typical field units.

Bicycle Medics

Pittsburgh EMS utilizes bicycles to provide medical coverage for large spectator events. These bicycles, staffed with paramedics and ALS equipment, are able to offer medical care faster than the traditional method when dealing with large crowds. The bicycles also offer to the paramedics the ability to traverse difficult terrain that would otherwise only be accessible by foot.
To inquire about special event scheduling, please call the EMS office at 412-622-6930.

Honor Guard

The City of Pittsburgh Bureau of Emergency Medical Services Honor Guard was established in February of 1995. An EMS Honor Guard was needed to help honor three City of Pittsburgh Firefighters that tragically lost their lives in a structure fire on Valentine's Day.
Since then, the Honor Guard has grown from three initial members to the 15 dedicated members that provide this distinguished service today. All members are City of Pittsburgh Bureau of EMS Paramedics or Paramedic Crew Chiefs.
The Honor Guard is busy throughout the year, providing services at different details. Some of these details include parades, banquets, dedications, memorial services, funerals, conferences and inaugurations. The Honor Guard has traveled out of state for several ceremonial details.
The annual signature event for the Honor Guard is held each year during May, when the National EMS Memorial Service is held in Roanoke, Virginia. At this event, EMS agencies from across the nation take the time to honor those pre-hospital EMS personnel who have made the "Ultimate Sacrifice," losing their lives in the line of duty.

Contact Us

If interested in requesting the presence of the City of Pittsburgh EMS Honor Guard, please contact:
Division Chief Paul A. Sabol, NRPCell: 412-475-0854Office: 412-622-6931Paul.Sabol@pittsburghpa.gov

Rescue Division

In the summer of 1977, the Pittsburgh Bureau of Emergency Medical Services created the Rescue Division to enhance the delivery of medically directed technical, tactical and heavy rescue. Since 1977, the Rescue Division has grown a great deal and currently has the following units:

Rescue 1 and 2

The Rescue Division has two 2007 Pierce Arrow XT Heavy-duty Rescue trucks in service that are available 24 hours a day. These units are staffed with a minimum of two paramedics at all times for any type of rescue that should arise in the City of Pittsburgh. Every paramedic in Pittsburgh is trained in Basic Vehicle Rescue (BVR) and Basic Rescue Practices (BRP).

Rescue 5



- Structural Collapse/Confined Space Rescue Truck

HazMat 1



- Hazardous Materials Response Truck

River Rescue



- Rescue 4, a SCUBA/River Rescue Truck
- Craft 5221, 5222, 5223, 5224 and 5225

Additional Information

All Rescue Division Paramedics are certified with the same ALS training and skills as those assigned to the Ambulance Division. All of our Rescue vehicles are fully equipped with a full compliment of ALS equipment similar to the ambulances and are Pennsylvania State Certified as ALS response vehicles.
Currently the Rescue Division is regularly staffed by six Paramedic Crew Chiefs and 18 Paramedics assigned to Rescue-1 and Rescue-2. Every Pittsburgh Paramedic Crew Chief and Paramedic is Pennsylvania State certified in a variety of rescue practices and is able to work in the Rescue Division if the need arises.
The Rescue Division also includes the Hazardous Materials Response Team and the River Rescue Units. The City of Pittsburgh HazMat Team (The Gold Team) is also part of the Allegheny County HazMat response team.
The River Rescue Station is located at PNC Park and during the peak boating season the unit is regularly staffed by two Paramedics who are certified Public Safety/Master SCUBA Divers. Throughout the remainder of the year and on the night shift, River Rescue is staffed by one Paramedic Public Safety/Master SCUBA Diver and an additional Paramedic Public Safety/Master SCUBA Diver will respond from their assigned Medic or Rescue Unit as needed to handle emergency responses.

Personnel Training

Personnel in the division are trained to handle a very wide range of medical and rescue situations.

Special Operations


Hazardous Materials

The City of PittsburghHazardous Materials (HazMat) Response Teamwas established in 1986 as a joint effort between the Bureau of EMS and the Bureau of Fire. Presently the team is made up of 31 Paramedics, 45 Firefighters and ten Police Officers. Our team is also one of the five teams that make up the Allegheny County Hazardous Materials Response Team and is known to the county as the Gold Team.
The HazMat team is deployed after a hazardous material release is confirmed by the first arriving units to a suspected incident.
HazMat-1 is a custom HazMat truck equipped with an 18-foot walkthrough body. HazMat-1 carries a variety of equipment including chemical suits, gloves, boots, decontamination equipment, self-contained breathing apparatus, and much more. We are constantly in the process of adding any additional equipment necessary to mitigate any potential incident.
Additionally hazmat units operated by the Bureau of Fire include a foam engine, a spill cleanup truck and decontamination vehicles.

River Rescue

TheRiver Rescue Unitwas formed in March of 1986 by combining the efforts of the Bureau of Emergency Medical Services' SCUBA Search & Rescue Team with those of the Bureau of Police River Patrol.
The Paramedics who staff the River Rescue Units are certified as Public Safety Divers and are responsible for surface and subsurface water rescue, and for administering ALS emergency medical care to victims until they are transferred to the care of a land-based Medic Unit for additional treatment and transport.
The Police Officers assigned to River Rescue are responsible for piloting the various water rescue craft as well as for enforcing the regulations of the Pennsylvania Fish & Boat Code.
The primary mission of the River Rescue Unit is to prevent and to respond to waterborne emergencies in the waterways in and around the City of Pittsburgh.
The Unit is also an integral part of the waterways community by providing assistance to the largest number of registered recreational boats in Pennsylvania and providing port security for the second largest inland port in the United States. Partnering with federal, state and other agencies, River Rescue remains dedicated to incident prevention as well as emergency response.

Tactical EMS Team

Established in 2011 the Pittsburgh EMSTEMS Teamwas originally formed with 14 Paramedics and 2 Paramedic Supervisors. TEMS trains regularly with Pittsburgh SWAT and is deployed simultaneously with the SWAT Team. The two teams work alongside each other to ensure the safety of the public and to provide prompt and expert rescue and medical care under nearly any circumstance. TEMS added a physician to the team as well in order to provide on scene medical direction when necessary. Pittsburgh TEMS is recognized as one of the highest trained and most capable Tactical EMS units in the region and strives to maintain that status.

Swiftwater and Flood Response

In addition to River Rescue, many Pittsburgh EMS personnel, both Paramedics and EMTs are trained in Flood Response and/or to the level of Swiftwater Technician. The bureau’s swift water rescue team is trained and certified as a 2A team within the state of Pennsylvania. The bureau’s training is sanctioned by the Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission and is completed by new personnel on a regular basis by in house instructors. Swiftwater Technicians are issued personal equipment that allows them to respond to a plethora of water related incidents in and around the City of Pittsburgh.
When severe weather or flooding is predicted the bureau adds additional personnel to augment the capabilities of Rescue 1, Rescue 2 and River Rescue to expedite responses to water emergencies. In addition, as a 2A team, the team is deployable throughout the commonwealth if requested.

ECHO Team

TheECHO Teamwas created in 2014 in response to the Ebola outbreak that threatened the United States and originally was comprised of 12 Paramedics that received advanced training in the use of Personal Protective Equipment specialized for use during the care of a person with a suspected highly infectious disease (HID.) Pittsburgh EMS became one of less than 10 agencies in the state that was prepared to handle a patient with a confirmed HID diagnosis. Over the years the team participated in numerous exercises and training events and sent a portion of the team to the Center for Domestic Preparedness to complete their HID training program. The Team has more recently been utilized for the COVID-19 pandemic providing expertise in PPE donning and doffing as well as post-care decontamination of units. The ECHO Team also participates in COVID-19 testing missions and transport missions of known positive cases.

Special Programs

Pittsburgh EMS is dedicated to providing the best prehospital medical care anywhere. That commitment starts well before a call to 911. The Bureau of EMS has developed and maintained a number of Special Programs that allow our Paramedics and EMTs to meet our neighbors before they have a moment of need. By building relationships with the public, the Bureau of EMS is able to provide value through outreach and education. Many of the services provided through the bureau’s special programs are designed to ensure our neighbors remain safe and healthy. Sometimes, however, a call to 911 for EMS is unavoidable. Other programs and services that are provided by the Bureau of EMS are aimed to teach the public how to act as our first tier of response through training, such as Stop the Bleed, First Aid and CPR training as well as how to be prepared for when Paramedics or EMTs arrive on scene by utilizing the Envelope of Life.
Use the menu on the right to explore the special programs offered by Pittsburgh EMS. Thank you for taking the first step in joining us to keep Pittsburgh safe and healthy!

Community Outreach & Education


Envelope of Life


Car Seat Safety


Training Division

City of Pittsburgh Paramedics are certified through the Pennsylvania Department of Health. Many of our Paramedics have also obtained certification through the National Registry of EMTs gaining them certification as a Nationally Registered Paramedic.
New Paramedics and EMTs are also instructed through a joint effort between Pittsburgh EMS and the Center for Emergency Medicine. Training to become a Paramedic requires thousands of hours of preparation, dedication and hard work. Paramedics are constantly updating themselves and the equipment and skills required to perform at their best. It is the role of the Training Division to keep the Paramedics prepared for whatever they may encounter.
Paramedics of Pittsburgh EMS continue their education and maintaining certification by attending a minimum of 24 hours of continuing education classes each year.
To ensure that every Paramedic receives annual training, the Bureau of Emergency Medical Services developed the EMS Training Division to handle the task of education. The division consists of three Paramedic Crew Chiefs assigned as training officers to handle the workload. In addition, other field personnel with specialized training are brought into the Division as needed to assist in training subjects that are not part of everyday, routine operations. There are also many Paramedic Crew Chiefs trained as Field Training Officers to assist in the hands-on training that is given to many Paramedic students, emergency physician residents, RNs and so on.
Many of our Paramedics are certified as instructors and evaluators in a wide range of related Public Safety disciplines. These include Emergency Medicine, Rescue, Hazardous Materials and more. These Pittsburgh Paramedics routinely share their knowledge and skills with responders from throughout Pennsylvania and, indeed, the entire nation. Many of our personnel are among the most sought after technical instructors in their fields of expertise.
The Training Division also provides a range of educational opportunities to other City bureaus and departments as well as the public at large. The Training Division assists in facilitating CPR/AED (automatic external defibrillator) classes for other City of Pittsburgh departments and neighborhood groups. The Training Division also teaches the First Responder program for all of the City of Pittsburgh Bureau of Police officers and recruits.
City of Pittsburgh Paramedics receive their medical direction/command through the Center for Emergency Medicine and work under the guidance of our Medical Director, Dr. Ronald Roth. We also share a unique relationship with the University of Pittsburgh's affiliated Residency in Emergency Medicine which, on select calls, allows for an emergency physician to respond to the scene of an emergency.

Contact Us

Training Division220 22nd StreetPittsburgh, PA 15222Phone: 412-255-2450Fax: 412-255-4714Email:EMS Training

EMS Contacts

EMS Headquarters700 Filbert Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15232Pittsburgh, PA 15219412-622-6930Fax: 412-622-6941
EMS ChiefAmera A. Gilchrist412-622-6930
Deputy ChiefJeffrey Tremel412-622-6930
Assistant ChiefMark Pinchalk412-255-2462
Division ChiefRescue Division: Anthony Darkowski412-622-6940
Division ChiefAmbulance Division: Paul Sabol412-622-6940
Division ChiefEmergency Management, Special Event Requests, COPE Program Requests: Jennifer McDermott-Grubb412-622-6940
Operations/Safety ChiefAnthony L. Shrader412-622-6931
Billing Inquiries412-655-0437
Medical RecordsLinda Gale Krause412-622-6930
EMS Training DivisionBrian Smouse412-255-2450

Additional Contact Information

Lost an item with one of our units? Let us know with ourLost Item Form.
For complaints, please call 3-1-1. The out-of-city complaint number is 412-255-2621.

Become a Paramedic


Career Exploration

Thinking about joining our team but not sure if it’s right for you?Check out our new Career Exploration Opportunity! This exciting new ride along experience is for those who currently hold a Paramedic or EMT certification. You'll be paired with a member of our EMS Recruitment Team for a shift to meet current providers, see our system, and explore the city!
Program Requirements


- Must possess a current Paramedic or EMT Certification (State or National Registry)
- Current valid drivers license
- Must be at least 18 years of age or older
- Provide proof of COVID vaccination
- Must sign a liability/privacy waiver
Sign-up and get more information:Career Exploration Sign-up

Apply to be a Paramedic or EMT

We are hiring! Pittsburgh EMS is actively recruiting talented Paramedics and EMTs. Entry level and experienced providers are encouraged to apply. The Application Period opens and closes on a rotating basis. Please check the links below for current job openings or to complete an interest card.
To Apply, go to theCity’s Online Employment Center.
For hiring updates, reminders and general notifications, fill out ourCareer Interest Form.
For questions or additional information on careers at Pittsburgh EMS, contact us directly atemsrecruiting@pittsburghpa.gov.

Paramedic Requirements



- Currently certified with a State Paramedic Certification and/or a Nationally Recognized Certification. Applicants must present a Pennsylvania Paramedic Certification prior to appointment.
- Current, valid Pennsylvania driver's license.
- Become a City of Pittsburgh resident before being appointed to the position.

EMT Requirements



- Currently certified with a State EMT Certification and/or a Nationally Recognized Certification. Applicants must present a Pennsylvania EMT Certification prior to appointment.
- Current, valid Pennsylvania driver's license.
- Become a City of Pittsburgh resident before being appointed to the position.

Certifications and Training

The following organizations have Paramedic training programs:


- Center for Emergency Medicine
- Community College of Allegheny County
Already certified in another state?Please contact one of the Pennsylvania regional EMS offices to obtain information on receiving Pennsylvania certification.

Freedom House EMT Training

Freedom House EMT Training Academy will be offering a 12-week paid EMT training certification program.
EMT Certification leads to City of Pittsburgh Employment
PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS:


- City of Pittsburgh residency
- 18 years of age
- Valid PA drivers license
Apply Today!
