Title: Duquesne SoundWalk at the Frick
date: Every Sunday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
time: 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM
short_text: Duquesne students bring the sights and sounds of Frick history to life in multisensory installation
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Duquesne-SoundWalk-at-the-Frick
Description: Explore and Listen

Title: Kara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated)
date: March 1, 2025 - May 25, 2025
time: 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM
short_text: Kara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated) comes to the Frick Art Museum from March 1 through May 25, 2025.
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Kara-Walker-Harpers-Pictorial-History-of-the-Civil-War-Annotated
Description: The touring presentation of
Kara Walker: Harper’s Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated)
is organized by The Museum Box. The exhibition was curated by Lisa Hayes Williams, associate curator at the New Britain Museum of American Art where the show debuted in 2020.

Title: Car and Carriage Museum
date: Every Sunday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
time: 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM
short_text: Explore the Frick's collection of historic carriages and automobiles.
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Car-and-Carriage-Museum
Description: Duquesne students bring the sights and sounds of Frick history to life in multisensory installation

Title: The Frick Art Museum
date: Every Sunday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
time: 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM
short_text: Enjoy the Frick's collection of historic and contemporary painting and decorative arts alongside traveling exhibitions.
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-The-Frick-Art-Museum
Description: Duquesne students bring the sights and sounds of Frick history to life in multisensory installation

Title: Signature Clayton Tour Experience: Gilded, Not Golden
date: Every Sunday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
time: 10:15 AM - 3:00 PM
short_text: Immerse yourself in 1892, a pivotal year for our nation, Pittsburgh, and the Frick family.
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Signature-Clayton-Tour-Experience-Gilded-Not-Golden
Description: Just announced!
Gilded, Not Golden
, the newly reinterpreted tour of Clayton, won a
2024 Leadership in History Award
from the
American Association for State and Local History
.
Look beneath the “gilded” surface of the late 19th century to reveal the era's more complicated truths. Discover Pittsburgh’s influence as an industrial powerhouse through a shared dialogue about the ongoing legacies of the Gilded Age.
"The tour guide did an excellent job of explaining the house details, decorative arts, family history & Gilded Age, in general. I particularly liked how history of the working class was woven in as a counterpoint to the lavish lifestyle of the wealthy."
- Claire L.
The Gilded Age was an era not only of immense wealth and progress, but also rapid industrialization, unprecedented immigration, and labor strife. Explore this pivotal time in our nation’s history at Clayton, the only remaining fully preserved Gilded Age mansion in Pittsburgh. Join your guide and other visitors for a conversational experience that shares the stories of the Frick family and other Pittsburghers, and considers how the legacy of the Gilded Age continues to affect us today.
MORE ABOUT THE TOUR
Content advisory:
1892 was a tumultuous year for the Frick family and the Pittsburgh steel industry. For this reason, tours of Clayton deal with potentially challenging subject matter, including discussions of violence, grief, and child loss.
SCHEDULE A TOUR
Members are encouraged to call the Members Hotline at 412-342-4086
Cost:
Free for
members
$22 for non-members
$18 for Seniors aged 65+, post-secondary Students, Veteran/Active Military/National Guard/Reserves, people with disabilities (ADA), pre-K-12 Teachers, First Responders
$12 for youth 17 and under
$1 for Museums for All (SNAP benefits recipients) with Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) card
Free for babies held in arms
Free for Corporate Partners, Reciprocal Museum Members (NARM/ROAM)
Plan Your Visit:
Clayton tours include the first and second floors. The first floor of the house is wheelchair accessible.
Click for more information about accessibility
.
All Clayton tours begin at the Grable Visitor Center. Advance reservations are highly recommended.
Group tours are available for groups of 11 or more.
Learn more about reserving group tours.

Title: Car and Carriage Museum Guided Tour | 1 p.m.
date: Every Saturday
time: 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM
short_text: Join a guided tour of the Car and Carriage Museum and explore the story of America's transition from carriage to car.
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Car-and-Carriage-Museum-Guided-Tour-1-pm
Description: Duquesne students bring the sights and sounds of Frick history to life in multisensory installation

Title: Car and Carriage Museum Guided Tour | 3 p.m.
date: Every Saturday
time: 3:00 PM - 4:00 PM
short_text: Join a guided tour of the Car and Carriage Museum and explore the story of America's transition from carriage to car.
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Car-and-Carriage-Museum-Guided-Tour-3-pm
Description: Duquesne students bring the sights and sounds of Frick history to life in multisensory installation

Title: Gallery Conversations inKara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated)| 1:30 p.m.
date: Every Wednesday Friday Saturday
time: 1:30 PM - 1:50 PM
short_text: Join a gallery facilitator for a close-looking exploration of selected works in Kara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated).
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Gallery-Conversations-in-Kara-Walker-Harpers-Pictorial-History-of-the-Civil-War-Annotated-1
Description: Kara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated) comes to the Frick Art Museum f...

Title: Gallery Conversations inKara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated)| 2:30 p.m.
date: Every Wednesday Friday Saturday
time: 2:30 PM - 2:50 PM
short_text: Join a gallery facilitator for a close-looking exploration of selected works in Kara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated).
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Gallery-Conversations-in-Kara-Walker-Harpers-Pictorial-History-of-the-Civil-War-Annotated-2
Description: Kara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated) comes to the Frick Art Museum f...

Title: Echoes: An Evening of Music with KEA
date: March 29, 2025
time: 4:00 PM - 6:30 PM
short_text: KEA weaves together music, poetry, and visual elements to reflect on the legacy of racial history in America.
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Echoes-An-Evening-of-Music-with-KEA
Description: Performers
KEA — vocals
Gary Kalinoski — guitar
Kai Ballard — percussion
About KEA
Raised in Pittsburgh to a singer/guitarist father and a violinist mother, KEA has had an intimate relationship with music all her life. With her love for literature, her first writings were in the realm of poetry. KEA's love for singing blossomed following vocal training from Elayne Kitay and the local Jazz Workshop. KEA was always sensitive and deeply affected by the ebb and flow of personal relationships — the sweet beginnings, the steamy evolutions, the work put in to sustain them, and all too often, the endings.
Her insights became poems and later songs, each helping her shape her unique outlet of soul with a touch of jazz. A debut single, "iLove You," came to her one inspirational night in 2015 when she sat down to write a poem-like lullaby for one of her daughters. She later turned that poem into a song about an older daughter battling kidney hydro-nephrosis since birth. When the opportunity presented itself, KEA recorded "iLove You" and independently released it to the world on July 28, 2017, where it garnered profound international support on the BBC and Radiovolna and peaked at #1 on four U.K. Soul charts.
smoothjazz.com
even chose it as 'Song of the Month' by influential music site SoulTracks.
To keep up the momentum, KEA had a beautiful video shot in high definition 4K. From the pages of her life struggles, the storyline was the years that KEA placed romance on the backburner to focus on her daughter's health. The “iLove You” video was directed and edited by Deon Smalley (Smalley Films), and KEA, who also cast the clip and handled the production and costume design.
It was vital to KEA for the key locations around Pittsburgh to serve as backdrops, in-cluding Andrew Carnegie Free Library and Music Hall, Airbnb Historic Day House, and Dorsey’s Records shop. Most poignantly, the video starred KEA and her children Au-hneyah (6) and Alyssa (16) (playing one child over ten years), solidifying the intimate single-parent family portrait of unshakable love between a mother and daughter.
KEA returned with her second single. “Not My Friend,” a smooth, engaging groove with a pretty melody about a woman disconnecting from an unhealthy relationship. This song addressed a man who was verbally and emotionally abusive, controlling, non-communicative and self-centered. As a holiday treat for her increasing number of fans, KEA showcased her unique interpretive skills with a haunting rendition of Motown legend William “Smokey” Robinson’s winter of 1980 classic, “Being with You.” Where Robinson's rendition took a deceptively breezy musical approach about a man desper-ate to keep a lover, KEA dug into the darker psychological impact of the words.
KEA’s version of "Being with You" is known on the charts of America and the U.K. and she has achieved success on Digital Radio Tracker, Top 30 on the Urban Influencer urban chart, coveted streams on I-Heart radio, and supportive U.S. stations such as WFSK in Nashville, KCCB in Corning, Arkansas, and Top 10 status at Buffalo, New York's WUFO.
Promising more provocative songs with intriguing titles such as “Black Man,” “Black Beauty”, and “Pieces of a Man,” KEA’s goals are for mainstream and international suc-cess. She has performed at hometown Pittsburgh events and venues such as the Channel 11 News Holiday Parade, Stars at Riverview Jazz Series, The Birthright of Pittsburgh, the Explore East Liberty 2018 Wine Festival, the Harambe Black Arts Festi-val, the Christine Fréchard Gallery, and the Carnegie Arts Initiative (Jazz On 3rd).
The Black Lives Matter movement inspired "Holla if You Hear Me” and it quickly be-came one of Amazon’s hottest new releases. KEA also achieved success on the UK Soul chart and the ‘National Indie Soul Chart’ platforms ranking in the top #30. She was even invited to perform for their BMMAC (Black Music Month Award Ceremony in Buffalo, New York. During the ceremony, she met Gary Hines, Music Director and Pro-ducer of the 3-time Grammy Award-Winning Sounds of Blackness. In the words of Gary Hines, he said about her performance, "She killed tonight; she is amazing." He told KEA, "You are a phenomenal woman."
Her success continued with “We made it thru” and “Turn it Around” — two releases that continued to show her ever-expanded range of lyric skills and ability to get to the heart of issues that really matter. But there is more to KEA than writing and recording. She is an artist who knows what it means to connect in-person with real people.
Always close to her community, she has been something of a staple in Pittsburgh's en-tertainment scene. The Downtown Pittsburgh Partnership and Walnut Capital and opening the Picklesburgh three-day festival held at the iconic Andy Warhol Bridge are all on her list of achievements. She even performed at “The Biggest Party of the Year”, Pittsburgh's Light Up Night festival.
KEA has been booked throughout the year and is always excited to connect with a new crowd with lyrics and sounds that are always raw, real, and straight from the heart.
About Kai Ballard
Kai is a trained drummer who mastered his craft while studying at Florissant Valley Community College followed by a stint at Indiana University School of Music, Bloomington, IN. It was at I.U. where his passion fully took hold and he played in a plethora of bands, operas, symphonies and musicals. Notable productions include
Barber of Seville
,
Cabaret
,
Working
,
Meet Me In St. Louis
and
Phantom of the Opera
.
He has also toured with Krystol who had a top ten billboard hit with “Passion for a Woman” writ-ten by Randy Jackson and opened for Morris Day, ConFunkShun and the Jetts. A year later and he toured with Hank Ballard and the Midnighters, followed by performances with Miki Howard and Jean Carne across a range of LA venues.
A notable career highlight was having the opportunity to rehearse with Stevie Wonder for sev-eral months in his Wonderland studio. Big things continued when Kai toured with L.L. Cool J on the Budweiser Tour alongside Whitney Houston, Keith Sweat, Digital Underground and many more. This was all before his passion for music took him to Japan with members of Earth, Wind & Fire, as well as several other groups of that era.
Jump forward to 1994 and you may remember seeing him perform on Saturday Night Live with the one and only Snoop Doggy Dogg. Hot off the back of that he received a full cymbal, stick and merchandise endorsement from Zildjian and continued to do his thing like no one else.
Along the way he took instruction at UCLA where Randy Jackson (then A&R VP at A&M Rec-ords) and Barry Squire (then A&R manager at Columbia Records) taught him like only they can. He soon headed over to Capitol Records where he would work on the iconic Paul McCartney’s “Back in the U.S.” tour in 2001.
Check in with Kai back in 2009 and you’ll have found him recording 8 tracks on Bone Thugs-N-Harmony’s “The World’s Enemy” CD. He was based in LA during this part of his career and worked on everything from heavy metal to country, before making the move to Pittsburgh 4 years ago.
Since arriving in the City of Bridges, Kai has played with Mike Sheer, Craig King, Eric Johnson (jazz), Tony Campbell, and others at Backstage Bar, Thunderbird, R Bar, and James Street. You’ll find him teaching drumming at Nstuff Music where he continues to share his passion with the next generation.

Title: The Art of the Crucifixion: From Anguish to Absurdity
date: March 30, 2025
time: 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM
short_text: Join Kahren Jones Arbitman, Ph.D. for a lecture exploring the long evolution of the artistic depiction of Christ on the cross.
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-The-Art-of-the-Crucifixion-From-Anguish-to-Absurdity
Description: Depictions of the crucified Christ are common in both churches and art museums, though the specifics can vary widely. The Bible gives scant details and leaves a lot of room for imagination, and artists of every era have been quick to add their own creative touches. From Byzantine works that adhered closely to theological doctrine, to Western wealthy patrons with their own ideas about how the crucifixion should be shown, to modern artists creating passionate testaments to their personal beliefs as well as their views on politics and social justice, there is much to examine through visual representations of this singular, profound event.
Arcangelo Cola da Camerino, Italian,
The Madonna and Child, Enthroned; Crucifixion
, circa 1420-1422, tempera on panel, 20 x 23 1/4 in. Frick Art & Historical Center.
Dr. Arbitman received both an MA and Ph.D. in art history from the University of Pittsburgh with a specialization in seventeenth-century Dutch art, more specifically, Rembrandt. After serving as the first curator-in-charge of The Frick Art Museum in 1985, she went on to become the director of the Palmer Museum of Art at Penn State University and the Executive Director of the Cummer Museum of Art & Gardens in Florida.

Title: Guided Evening Tour ofKara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated)
date: April 16, 2025
time: 6:00 PM
short_text: Spend an evening inKara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated)for an exclusive guided tour of the exhibition.
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Guided-Evening-Tour-of-Kara-Walker-Harpers-Pictorial-History-of-the-Civil-War-Annotated-April
Description: Kara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated) comes to the Frick Art Museum f...

Title: Book Talk: Dr. Edda Fields-Black on Harriet Tubman and the Combahee River Raid
date: April 24, 2025
time: 7:00 PM - 8:00 PM
short_text: Join The Frick Pittsburgh and Dr. Edda Fields-Black for an examination of untold stories and reclaimed histories through her most recent book.
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Book-Talk-Dr-Edda-Fields-Black-on-Harriet-Tubman-and-the-Combahee-River-Raid
Description: Kara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated) comes to the Frick Art Museum f...

Title: Guest Label Writers in Conversation
date: May 1, 2025
time: 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM
short_text: You're invited to a lively and interactive evening where guest labelists share the insights behind the Kara Walker works that inspired their labels.
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Guest-Label-Writers-in-Conversation
Description: Guest Labelists
The Kara Walker exhibition features the contributions of guest labelists from the Pittsburgh community. Guest contributors as of January 30 include:
Amanda Boston, Assistant Professor, Department of Africana Studies, University of Pittsburgh
Tara Fay Coleman, mother, conceptual artist, curator, writer, and arts worker
Madeline Gent, Executive Director, Associated Artists of Pittsburgh
Jasmine Green, Black Girl Absolute
Jim Griffin, Director of Equity and Community Engagement, University of Pittsburgh
Michael Kraus, Curator, Soldiers & Sailors Memorial Hall and Museum
Bryanna McDaniel, MPH, Public Health Professional
Shaun Myers, Assistant Professor, Department of English, University of Pittsburgh
Alaina E. Roberts, Associate Professor of History, University of Pittsburgh
Kirk Savage, William S. Dietrich II Professor, History of Art and Architecture, University of Pittsburgh
Haifa Subay, artist
Heather White, Artist and Director of Learning, The Andy Warhol Museum
Quaishawn Whitlock, Artist and Educator
Imin Yeh, Associate Professor of Art and Director of Foundational Studies, Carnegie Mellon University

Title: Guided Evening Tour ofKara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated)
date: May 7, 2025
time: 6:00 PM
short_text: Spend an evening inKara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated)for an exclusive guided tour of the exhibition.
learn_more_url: https://www.thefrickpittsburgh.org/Event-Guided-Evening-Tour-of-Kara-Walker-Harpers-Pictorial-History-of-the-Civil-War-Annotated-May
Description: Kara Walker: Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated) comes to the Frick Art Museum f...