
Biography

Mayor Ed Gainey grew up in East Liberty and saw firsthand the economic hardships many families face in our city. Raised by a single mother, he counted on the support of his extended family and community to build a pathway to high school and college. Inspired to do the same for others, Ed Gainey discovered in college that an effective government can be a powerful tool to fight injustice and uplift communities. As a State Representative in Harrisburg he was on the front line fighting for working families, and as Mayor of Pittsburgh he'll work everyday to make Pittsburgh a city where all can belong and contribute. Ed and his wife Michelle have three children and live in the Lincoln-Lemington neighborhood of Pittsburgh.

Mayor's Cabinet


Executive Team

Felicity WilliamsDeputy Chief of Staff
Jake PawlakDeputy Mayor & Director of the Office of Management and Budget
Kyle ChintalapalliChief Economic Development OfficerChief of Staff
Lisa FrankChief Operating and Administrative Officer
Pamela CollierSpecial Assistant to the Mayor
Patrick CornellChief Financial Officer

Office of the Mayor

Adrianna BraninManager, Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA)
Alexis WalkerProsperity Manager
Anne Marie EllisonManager, Office of Equal Protection
Ashley BryantNeighborhood Engagement Coordinator
Chastity BeyNeighborhood Engagement Coordinator
Cherise GreenCoordinator, Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA)
Chuck DurhamManager, Office of Business Diversity
Cydney CooperInterim Director of Communications
Daniel MooreContract Compliance Analyst
Darius WallaceStrategic Projects Administrator
Derrick CaldwellYouth Coordinator
Jacob WilliamsPress Officer
Jan RaetherInfrastructure Engagement and Performance Operations Manager
Lindsey Aquino-RoblesNeighborhood Engagement Coordinator
Lori CriswellExecutive Administrative Assistant to the Chief of Staff
Matt KlinkPerformance & Operations Analyst
Michelle KingPolicy Coordinator, Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Michelle WalkerADA Compliance Coordinator
Naomi JohnsonAssistant Manager, 311 Response Team
Nathan HarperManager, Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Olga GeorgePress Secretary
Paul ScottEngagement Manager
Pilar BriggsPress Officer
Upasna GoswamiCoordinator, Office of Business Diversity
Wendy UrbanicManager, 311 Response Team
Yasmin ShaheedExecutive Administrator to the Mayor

Department Directors

Chris HornsteinDirector of Public Works
David GreenDirector of Permits, Licenses, & Inspections
Erin BruniManager of Office of Municipal Investigations
Heidi NormanDirector of Innovation & Performance, CIO
Jamil BeyDirector of City Planning
Jennifer GulaDirector of Finance & Treasurer of City & School District of Pittsburgh
Kathryn VargasDirector of Parks and Recreations
Kim LucasDirector of Mobility and Infrastructure
Krysia KubiakCity Solicitor
Lee SchmidtDirector of Public Safety
Paula KellermanDirector, Human Resources & Civil Service and EEO

Public Safety Chiefs

Amera GilchristChief of Emergency Medical Services
Darryl JonesChief of Bureau of Fire
TBAChief of Bureau of Police

Youth Civic Leadership Academy


Overview

The Youth Civic Leadership Academy (YCLA) helps youth do the heavy lifting emerging adulthood requires by equipping youth with transferable skills, competencies, and experiential learning necessary to thrive as civic leaders, community stewards, and change-makers in the workplace and beyond. YCLA will provide opportunities for youth to access, explore, and experience career fields typically deemed off-limits for youth of color and those without significant monetary and social capital within Pittsburgh including decision-making fields like civics, education, and infrastructure.
Through a 3 phased experiential learning and project-based approach, YCLA will equip youth with insights into Pittsburgh’s past, resources of the present, and the vision of Pittsburgh's future with the mayor being a direct mentor committed to imbuing youth with a sense of belonging and relevant regional identity. Beyond a transactional or removed level of engagement merely informing youth that certain career fields exist,
YCLA provides a literal one-of-a-kind immersive and integrative experience made possible through the leadership of the City of Pittsburgh Office of the Mayor and supporting partners-the Community College of Allegheny County, the Heinz History Center, Partner4Work, and Youth Enrichment Services, Inc. (YES) YCLA scholars will not only see themselves as capable of having a career but also as being a part of Pittsburgh’s career ecosystem. Youth will earn college credit through a partnership with CCAC and be enrolled in a course that is specially designed to support their civic competency but also exposure to city departments in hopes to obtain a job given their area of interest. They will be able to participate in a circuit-style internship experience over the 11 weeks in the program.
Fall 2023 Flyer(PDF, 993KB)
2023 YCLA Application

Press Releases

Signupto receive our press release.


- City Press Release Archive

Contact


Contact Mayor Ed Gainey



- Event Invitation
- Meeting Request
- Group Proclamation Form
- Individual Proclamation Form
- Letters of Support
- Mayor's Feedback Form
- Newsletter Signup
Mailing Address414 Grant Street, 5th FloorPittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone412-255-2626

Letters of Support Forms

All requests for a letter of support from the Office of the Mayor are due by the 10th day of every month. Applications are reviewed by the Mayor and staff using an evaluation rubric on a monthly basis. If necessary, a follow up meeting may be scheduled to further discuss the project. Please allow the appropriate amount of time for approval of a letter of support in your project planning timeline.


- Welcome Letter
- Letter of Recommendation
- Letter Advocating for Policy or Mission Based
- Letter of Support of Project for Grant or Foundation Request

Executive Orders


COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement to Protect Health and Safety of All

Published on November 01, 2021
The City of Pittsburgh has announced that all employees are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 by December 22, 2021 in order to protect employees as well as the public they serve.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Fentanyl Test Strips for Overdose Prevention on Overdose Awareness Day

Published on August 31, 2021
Mayor William Peduto issued an Executive Order today calling to allow the possession and use of fentanyl test strips, a key opioid overdose prevention tool, in the City of Pittsburgh.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Mayor Peduto Signs Executive Order for City Youth Bullying Prevention

Published on July 21, 2021
Mayor William Peduto signed an Executive Order today for the development and implementation of a Youth Bullying Prevention Policy to cover all youth-focused programming provided by the City of Pittsburgh.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Mayor Peduto's Executive Order Authorizing E-Scooter Pilot Program

Published on July 20, 2021
Please open the Executive Order for details.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Executive Order Committing Pittsburgh to Be Carbon Neutral by 2050

Published on April 27, 2021
Mayor William Peduto issued a sweeping Earth Day Executive Order today that builds upon Pittsburgh’s leadership in fighting climate change by committing the city to become fully carbon-neutral by 2050.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Executive Order to Combat Construction Fraud and Promote Worker Safety

Published on April 27, 2021
Following lengthy study by a construction industry tax force, Mayor William Peduto today signed an Executive Order to cut down on construction fraud, promote worker safety and protect City tax revenue.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Executive Order to Create a Building Deconstruction Policy

Published on April 27, 2021
Today, Mayor William Peduto issued an Executive Order to create a unified, City-led deconstruction policy designed to remediate blight in city neighborhoods while diverting building materials from landfills, advancing climate action goals, promoting equity, and creating job training opportunities.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Mayor William Peduto Declares State of Emergency Due to COVID-19

Published on March 13, 2020
Mayor William Peduto today declared a State of Emergency in the City of Pittsburgh and signed an Executive Order prohibiting all public gatherings of more than 250 people, effective 9 a.m. Monday.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Mayor William Peduto Creates City's First Office of Equity

Published on May 10, 2019
Mayor William Peduto today signed an Executive Order creating the City’s Office of Equity, which will work across City of Pittsburgh government to embed the importance of equity in government work, and address and eradicate inequalities in all its forms.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Transformative Policies for Autonomous Vehicle Testing and Development

Published on March 04, 2019
Mayor William Peduto issued an Executive Order today outlining City objectives and expectations for the safe testing of autonomous vehicles in Pittsburgh, and assigning responsibilities for the development of transparent and constructive reporting guidelines for the growing technology sector.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Executive Order Directing City Agencies to Consider Workplace Reforms

Published on September 28, 2018
Mayor William Peduto today issued an Executive Order directing all City authorities to consider 17 workforce improvements his administration has advanced for city employees and residents.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Peduto Signs Workforce Development and Labor Agreement Orders

Published on May 29, 2018
Mayor William Peduto, in conjunction with the city's Construction Industry Task Force, today signed two Executive Orders supporting growth of the construction industry and access to family-supporting union jobs for city residents.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Paid Safe Leave Policy for Victims of Domestic Abuse

Published on April 03, 2018
Mayor William Peduto joined community partners today to announce an Executive Order creating a Paid Safe Leave policy for city employees victimized by domestic abuse.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Lactation Rooms as Part of the Facilities Plan

Published on March 28, 2018
The Mayor understands the need and importance for gender equity in the City of Pittsburgh.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Adopting Restructuring Recommendations of PWSA Blue Ribbon Panel

Published on January 22, 2018
Mayor William Peduto today issued an Executive Order adopting recommendations of his Blue Ribbon Panel on restructuring Pittsburgh Water & Sewer Authority governance.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Mayor William Peduto Signs Executive Order on Responsible Contracting

Published on July 26, 2017
Mayor William Peduto today signed an Executive Order to support the local construction industry and new job training opportunities in Pittsburgh.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Executive Order Committing City to Paris Climate Accords

Published on June 02, 2017
Mayor William Peduto today issued an Executive Order to further promote climate control initiatives, in the wake of President Trump's disastrous decision to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Accords of 2015.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Mayor William Peduto Issues Executive Order on Tree Protection

Published on April 21, 2017
In honor of Earth Day, Mayor William Peduto issued an Executive Order today calling for new ways to protect City trees, which cover 40% of Pittsburgh's land area and are vital to the City's parks, green spaces, and quality of life.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Mayor William Peduto Adopts "Rooney Rule" For City Hiring

Published on April 19, 2017
Mayor William Peduto today issued an Executive Order adopting measures to promote diversity in City hiring, similar to an initiative backed by late Steelers Chairman Dan Rooney within the National Football League.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Mayor Peduto Issues New Executive Orders on Affordable Housing

Published on February 15, 2017
Mayor William Peduto today issued three new executive orders to begin implementing recommendations by the City Housing Task Force, covering ways to encourage building of affordable housing.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Mayor Peduto Issues Executive Orders on Affordable Housing

Published on February 14, 2017
Mayor William Peduto today issued two executive orders to begin implementing recommendations by the City Housing Task Force, covering ways to protect people from losing their housing.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Executive Order on $15 Minimum Wage For City Employees

Published on November 10, 2015
Mayor William Peduto signed an executive order today requiring that all full-time City employees be paid no less than $15 per hour.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Executive Order Creating Early Childhood Education Task Force

Published on August 25, 2015
Mayor William Peduto today named a Mayor's Blue Ribbon Panel on Early Childhood Education to help the city seek funding for a preschool development grant program the White House announced in the Hill District earlier this month.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Executive Order on New Management and Budget Reforms

Published on August 12, 2015
Mayor William Peduto issued an Executive Order today that will bring new efficiency and transparency to the City of Pittsburgh's spending and budgeting procedures.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Enacting Strategic Investment and Maintenance Plan for PS, PW, and PFs

Published on June 09, 2015
Mayor William Peduto issued an executive order today enacting a long-term, strategic investment and maintenance plan for city-owned facilities, as part of the City's comprehensive fixed asset management system.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Elected Officials' Names on City Property With First Executive Order

Published on June 09, 2015
In his first executive order, Mayor William Peduto today announced a ban on elected officials from having their names placed on city property such as city vehicles or trash cans. The executive order also requires that names of previous mayors will be removed from city property. Mayor Peduto's name will not be printed, painted, or engraved on any long-term city property.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Complete Streets Policy for Pittsburgh Rights of Way

Published on April 10, 2015
Mayor William Peduto today announced the City's commitment to adopt a complete streets policy for Pittsburgh's public rights of way.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Mayor William Peduto Issues Executive Order on City Spending

Published on June 23, 2014
Mayor William Peduto’s office today issued an executive order outlining new controls on city spending.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Mayor William Peduto Issues Executive Order on Take-home Vehicles

Published on March 14, 2014
Mayor William Peduto issued an Executive Order today that will cut one-third of the take-home vehicles used by city personnel. The order slices the take-home fleet from 56 to 38 vehicles, and restricts their use to Public Safety and Public Works supervisors on-call to respond to emergencies. In the past, employees in the Mayor's office and some city department directors had such vehicles.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

Executive Order to Form Summer Youth Employment Task Force

Published on February 14, 2014
Mayor William Peduto issued an executive order today announcing the creation of a Mayoral Task Force on Summer Youth Employment Opportunities in order to assess the City of Pittsburgh's Summer Youth Employment Program. The task force will be charged with presenting concrete recommendations and an action plan for expanding access and improving the quality and diversity of placement opportunities.
Tagged as:,Executive Orders

City-County Building

In 2017, Pittsburgh celebrated the 100th Anniversary of our historic seat of government, the City-County Building! Explore this website to learn about its dynamic history and find out how to visit our historic home!
The City-County Building under construction in 1915.
The City-County Building shortly after completion in 1917.
The City-County Building today.

Celebrate City Hall

Whether you are visiting the Mayor, speaking to Council, getting your marriage license, or just love architecture, we want you to join our century of memories! Use the hashtag #PghCCB to share your photos!

City-County Building History


City-County Building History

In 1794, the newly formed Borough of Pittsburgh established a Public Market House in the current location of Market Square. Aside from creating the public market tradition that continues there today, this location was also home to the very first Pittsburgh Municipal Hall. As Pittsburgh continued to grow, so would the space required for government services. The Market House quickly became obsolete and the cornerstone of a new City Hall was laid at Smithfield Street and Oliver Avenue in May of 1869. The County, which first courthouse was also in this location moved to its current location on Grant Street in 1836. The Smithield Street City Hall would serve until the completion of the City-County Building in 1917. It would sit abandoned for 50 years before sold for a redevelopment in the 1950's.
The first City Hall at Market Square.
The second City Hall on Smithfield Street.
Mayor David Lawrence strikes the first blow for the demolition of the second City Hall.

City-County Building

In 1911, a City of Pittsburgh Commission was formed by unanimous resolution of Council for the construction of a new City Hall. The Commission, which by 1913 had been joined by the appropriate members representing Allegheny County, employed New York architect Cass Gilbert to arrange a competition for the design of a new municipal building. Of the 16 entries, the winning design was submitted by the firm Palmer, Hornbostel, & Jones of New York, who were represented locally by Edward B. Lee. The plans were officially adopted on January 19, 1914, and began the following year. The building acted as a gift to Pittsburgh to honor the 1916 Centennial of Pittsburgh's 1816 incorporation as a City. At the March 1916 dedication ceremony, Mayor Joseph Armstrong placed a time capsule into the still under construction building. Two and a half years later in December 1917, he would become the first Mayor to call the City-County Building a second home. The missing time capsule has yet to be discovered.
The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette announces Pittsburgh's 1916 Centennial and the construction of a new City Hall.
Mayor Armstrong places a newspaper in the time capsule to be buried in the City-County Building.
The shovel used in the groundbreaking ceremony of the City-County Building.
The City-County Building under construction in 1916.

The Grand Lobby

The Grand Lobby of the City-County Building, is one of the building's most beautiful spaces. The room extends the length of the building, connecting Grant Street to Ross Street. The 30-foot wide hall is topped off by a 47-foot high barrel-vaulted ceiling. On the first floor, the marble lined hall is flanked by a series of row offices that contain the public service offices most often visited - the County's marriage license and passports, and Pittsburgh's Controller, and Treasury offices. The offices form a base on which sit the bronze classical columns that support the vaulted ceiling. The columns are works of art themselves, manufactured by Louis Tiffany Studios. They feature, in a rotating series at their bases, the Seals of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County, as well as iconic local frontiersman Guyasuta and Pittsburgh's oldest surviving building, the Fort Pitt Blockhouse. The rooms ornate elevator doors feature a series of reliefs detailing the previous homes of municipal government. The reliefs age with the building's they clutch, reaching adulthood with the present City-County Building and Allegheny County Courthouse.
The Grand Lobby of the City-County Building.
In 1972 the City of Pittsburgh moved Phipps Fall Flower show to the City-County Building. It would return to Phipps Conservatory in 1975.
The ornate elevator doors.
The offical statue of Sir William Pitt was a gift to Pittsburgh from Sir Charles Wakefield Baronet, the former Lord Mayor of London in 1922.

The Mayor's Suite

The place where much of Pittsburgh's future was shaped, the Office of the Mayor, has played the role of a second home to every Cheif Executive of Pittsburgh since 1917. These two state rooms have gone virtually unchanged in the last century. Most of the furniture, including the iconic Desk, are original to the building's opening and were custom designed by Hornbostel.
The central hall features the offical portraits of Pittsburgh's Mayors.
The Office of the Mayor at completion in 1917.
Mayor Kline with guests in the Mayor's Conference Room in 1929.
Mayor William Peduto chats with students in the Mayor's Conference Room in 2017.

The Council Chamber

The Chamber is one of Pittsburgh's most distinct spaces. This state room is home to the legislative operations of the Council of Pittsburgh, the room also carries a historical record. The ornate plaster ceiling details the names of the municipalities which have been annexed in making up present day Pittsburgh. It also features the names of Pittsburgh's past Mayors. Having since outgrown the ceiling, many names now expand to the rooms hand-painted canvas walls. The room is completed with detailed walnut wainscoting which features the beautiful inlaid Pittsburgh Crest. Much like the Office of the Mayor, all of the furniture in the Chamber is original to the building's construction.
The Council Chamber.
The Council Chamber shortly after completion in 1917.
The inlaid walnut Pittsburgh Coat of Arms.
Future Mayor Richard Caliguiri being sworn in as a Council Member.

The Supreme Courtroom

As home to both the City of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County offices, the upper floors of the City-County Building are home to a large part of the courts system. The most famous tenant being the Supreme Court of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Supreme Court splits its time between the state's three major areas, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, and the State Capitol, Harrisburg. The ornate plaster ceiling features murals of 3 major historical law givers: Justinian - representing Roman law, Moses - for Judaic law, & King Edward representing English law. In addition it includes the dates of the completion of the United States and Pennsylvania Constitutions. Its hand painted canvas walls feature large murals of William Penn, the namesake of the Commonwealth, and William Pitt, the namesake of Pittsburgh, as well as the portraits of Supreme Court Justices from the Western District. The room is completed with mahogany wainscoting and furniture.
The Supreme Courtroom today.
The Supreme Courtroom shortly after completion in 1917.

Tour the City-County Building

Click here to view form.

Key Focus Areas


Executive Office

Key Areas of Focus:


- Operations – hiring, budget, staff management, professional development, systems development, front desk
- Strategic Initiatives
- Procurement Modernization
- Workforce Hub
- Bloomberg American Sustainable Cities
- Staffing for the Gender Equity Commission, LGBTQIA+ Commission, MBK
- Executive support – scheduling, briefings, proclamations, official signatures, letters of support
- BAC appointments
- Intergovernmental Affairs
- External institutional relationship management

Communications

Key Areas of Focus:


- Strategic communications plans and execution on behalf of mayor's office and city departments
- Press engagement and relationship management
- Media inquiries
- Press releases
- Digital communications
- Social media management
- Digital assets production
- Crisis communications

Neighborhood Services

Key Areas of Focus:


- 311
- Technical Assistance to mayor's office and departments for engagement planning and execution
- Constituent Services
- Love Your Block
- City Cuts
- Snow Angels
- City in the Streets
- Digital Newsletter
- EngagePGH management
- Neighborhood Services Hub

Business Diversity

Key Areas of Focus:


- EORC staffing and management
- MWDBE tracking and compliance
- MWDBE engagement

Immigrant and Refugee Affairs

Key Areas of Focus:


- Language Access
- Cultural Inclusion
- International Day Parade
- Mother Language Day
- Welcoming Communities, including audit and certification
- Technical assistance to departments on immigrant inclusion and accessibility for government services

Workforce Development, Youth, & Education

Key Areas of Focus:


- Learn & Earn – in collaboration with Pittsburgh Partnership and Partner4Work
- Youth Civic Engagement
- Internships
- Youth Commission
- Youth Civic Leadership Academy (YCLA)
- Budget/Public Service Grants
- Partnership with PPS – including CTE
- Pittsburgh Workforce Hub
- Financial Empowerment

Equal Protection

Key Areas of focus:


- Paid Sick Days Act
- Disruptive Properties Appeals – in collaboration with public safety
- Disability Rights
- ADA accommodation requests
- ADA Transition Plan
- Disability Resources Center
- Staff the City County Task Force on Disabilities
- Right To Know
- Ethics Compliance
- Policy Support
- Ban the Box
- Prevailing Wage Enforcement

i-team

Bloomberg American Sustainable Cities (BASC) is a three-year initiative to turbocharge 25 U.S. cities’ efforts to proactively build cleaner, more resilient, and economically thriving communities. The initiative aims to enhance the work already being done by climate-forward mayors across the U.S. by providing support for cities to design climate programs that fully seize the historic opportunity to access and implement federal funds to advance transformative changes.
Data shows that major sources of harmful pollution are disproportionately located in communities of Black people and people of color living on low incomes. Through Bloomberg American Sustainable Cities, i-teams will focus on building relationships in these communities and work alongside them to advance innovative projects that provide cleaner air, improved public health, a stronger economy with clean energy jobs, and the promise of a more equitable, sustainable future.
The Pittsburgh i-team is focused on two key City priorities: advancing initiatives to electrify, weatherize, and install solar systems in the homes of under-resourced residents, while simultaneously expanding workforce opportunities and creating clean energy career pathways for disadvantaged workers. These efforts also aim to support minority- and women-owned businesses in the region.
Dr. Daren A. Ellerbee, i-team Director, and Elliott Williams, i-team Civic Designer, will lead this work in Pittsburgh.
For more information, please visitBloomberg American Sustainable Cities.
Contact Daren Ellerbee atdaren.ellerbee@pittsburghpa.gov
